Related papers

Paper Id: WOS:000276114300001
Distance: 0.42190641164779663
Similarity: 0.5780935883522034
Title: The foundations of a theory-aware authoring tool for CSCL design
Abstract: One of the most useful ways to enhance collaboration is to create scenarios where learners are able to interact more effectively. Nevertheless, the design of pedagogically sound and well-thought-out collaborative learning scenarios is a complex issue. This is due to the context of group learning where the synergy among learners' interactions affects learning processes and, hence, the learning outcome. Although many advances have been made to support the designing of collaborative learning scenarios through technology, a more systematic approach is lacking. With the limitations of the current designing methods and tools, it is difficult to develop intelligent authoring systems that can guide users in order to produce more effective collaboration. One of the main difficulties with creating a more consistent (computer-understandable) approach to designing collaboration is the necessity of proposing better ways to formalize the group learning processes. In this paper, we present an innovative approach that uses ontologies and concepts from learning theories to create a framework that represents collaborative learning and its processes. Ontologies provide the necessary formalization to represent collaboration, while learning theories provide the concepts to justify and support the development of effective learning scenarios. Such an approach contributes to establish the foundations for the development of the next generation of intelligent authoring systems referred to as theory-aware systems. To verify the viability and usefulness of our proposed ontological framework in the context of systematic design, the development and use of an intelligent authoring tool for CSCL design is presented. This system is able to reason on ontologies to give suggestions that help users to create theory-compliant collaborative learning scenarios. We carried out several experiments with teachers in a geometry drawing course and the results indicate that the system helps teachers to create and interchange their scenarios more easily and facilitates the selection of important pedagogical strategies that influence positively the designing and effectiveness of group activities. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000313476200008
Distance: 0.4228578805923462
Similarity: 0.5771421194076538
Title: A situation model to support awareness in collaborative design
Abstract: The concept of awareness was introduced to underline the importance of shared knowledge and enhance collaborative work. Actors require much knowledge about their work situation and their collaborators' activities in order to complete their own activities successfully. This paper first contributes to a detailed literature review about the concept of awareness. This review helps to identify key awareness-related requirements for the development of collaborative systems. The second contribution is related to the proposal of a generic situation model that is based on the concept of entities, interactions and specific roles. This new conceptual framework intends to favor situation awareness and support shared representations. It concerns both technical and organizational design activities and describes the collaborative situations from multiple views and at different organizational levels (project, team and individual). The proposal's interest and its feasibility for use in the development of collaborative systems are demonstrated by instances related to a case study and by analyzing the potential satisfaction of the identified awareness-related requirements. To sum up, the paper offers a synthesis of key context-related concepts and a generic model for the representation of collaborative situations to increase awareness. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000269816400006
Distance: 0.42631372809410095
Similarity: 0.573686271905899
Title: Design of educational multiplayer videogames: A vision from collaborative learning
Abstract: Videogames and their specific devices can be used to improve learning process since they are very attractive for children. In this way, pupils increase their cognitive skills, the time dedicated to learn. their motivation for learning, their concentration and their attention while they are working/playing. The subject of "learning by play" is behind the introduction of recreational educational techniques in the classroom. If we also consider the increasing presence of new technologies in society in general and in classrooms in particular, we encounter a new way of teaching/learning. Moreover, several studies in the area of computer supported collaborative learning (CSCL) have proved that learning in a group environment (both actively and interactively) is much more productive for pupils than traditional education. Our main objective is to reduce the complexity of introducing the collaborative learning techniques into development of educational videogames. So, in this paper we analyze the use of videogames as a particular case of new technologies in the classroom and we present a set of design guidelines to enable us to incorporate the features of collaborative learning in the videogame development process. We also explore how these guidelines affect the videogame architecture and how they can be applied when designing a videogame. As a practical example of using our proposal we have designed an educational videogame with group activities which aim is to learn the vowels. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000279137800029
Distance: 0.4277476370334625
Similarity: 0.5722523629665375
Title: A Web 2.0-based collaborative annotation system for enhancing knowledge sharing in collaborative learning environments
Abstract: A limitation of current Web-based collaborative learning is the restricted ability of students to create and share individual annotations with annotated documents. Applying Web 2.0 collaborative annotation systems and analyzing students' annotation behavior has attracted attention to improve collaborative learning. This study designed a personalized annotation management system 2.0 (PAMS 2.0) for managing, sharing, and reusing individual and collaborative annotations as well as providing a shared mechanism for discussion about shared annotations among multiple users. The purposes of this study are three-fold: (1) to understand students' perceived attitudes toward the use of PAMS 2.0; (2) to investigate the effects of different annotation sharing scenarios on quantity of annotation and its influence on learning achievements; and (3) to examine the relationship between learning achievements and quantity of annotation. A quasi-experiment was conducted with two classes of college students for fifteen weeks. According to the results of the experiments, most of students in the experimental group are satisfied with the use of PAMS 2.0 for helping them create individual annotations and share their own annotations in collaborative learning context. Majorly students were interested in practical learning scenarios with PAMS 2.0 and thought this system is particularly useful for doing learning tasks. The analytical results of learning achievements show that the use of PAMS 2.0 can increase learning achievements in collaborative learning environments. Moreover, the results show that the influence of annotation on learning achievements becomes stronger with the use of the sharing mechanism. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000301275600006
Distance: 0.42826810479164124
Similarity: 0.5717318952083588
Title: Monitoring student progress using virtual appliances: A case study
Abstract: The interactions that students have with each other, with the instructors, and with educational resources are valuable indicators of the effectiveness of a learning experience. The increasing use of information and communication technology allows these interactions to be recorded so that analytic or mining techniques are used to gain a deeper understanding of the learning process and propose improvements. But with the increasing variety of tools being used, monitoring student progress is becoming a challenge. The paper answers two questions. The first one is how feasible is to monitor the learning activities occurring in a student personal workspace. The second is how to use the recorded data for the prediction of student achievement in a course. To address these research questions, the paper presents the use of virtual appliances, a fully functional computer simulated over a regular one and configured with all the required tools needed in a learning experience. Students carry out activities in this environment in which a monitoring scheme has been previously configured. A case study is presented in which a comprehensive set of observations were collected. The data is shown to have significant correlation with student academic achievement thus validating the approach to be used as a prediction mechanism. Finally a prediction model is presented based on those observations with the highest correlation. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000289396000023
Distance: 0.4314037263393402
Similarity: 0.5685962736606598
Title: Online group work patterns: How to promote a successful collaboration
Abstract: Participation is a complex process, engaging the whole person, implying cognitive, emotional and relational aspects. In online open and distant learning, group work is a commonly used strategy, given its collaborative nature and constructivist framework (Bates & Poole, 2003; Garrison & Anderson, 2003; Jonassen, 2005). In this context, collaborative learning processes are highly dependent on the shared written information and the interactions that are established among the participants. The types of interactions that occur within such groups can influence their knowledge convergence processes, and are often decisive for its success. In this paper we aim to study the different types of collaborative practices in online Courses based on the analysis of the online interactions on the discussion forums, the works produced by the students (both individually and in small groups), and answers to questionnaires applied in the different stages of the investigation. In this particular case we are interested in exploring questions related to the process of knowledge convergence during online group work in Open and Distance Learning. Data analysis involved iterative analysis and revision of the coding scheme. Two of the researchers derived the initial coding key from the online discussion forums used during the group project phase of the Curricular Unit. Some of the codes were quantified in order to foster a more meaningful comparison of the data by allowing patterns to be identified and further explored (McConnell, 2006). In this study, it became clear that the more and less successful groups, in terms of their outcome or product, clearly revealed distinctive patterns of work, characterized by negotiation, research, conception and production. Moreover, particular patterns of work make decisive contributions for the participants' shared knowledge and knowledge convergence. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000328801300001
Distance: 0.4315119981765747
Similarity: 0.5684880018234253
Title: Experimenting with electromagnetism using augmented reality: Impact on flow student experience and educational effectiveness
Abstract: Educational researchers have recognized Augmented Reality (AR) as a technology with great potential to impact affective and cognitive learning outcomes. However, very little work has been carried out to substantiate these claims. The purpose of this study was to assess to which extent an AR learning application affects learners' level of enjoyment and learning effectiveness. The study followed an experimental/control group design using the type of the application (AR-based, web-based) as independent variable. 64 high school students were randomly assigned to the experimental or control group to learn the basic principles of electromagnetism. The participants' knowledge acquisition was evaluated by comparing pre- and post-tests. The participants' level overall-state perception on flow was measured with the Flow State Scale and their flow states were monitored throughout the learning activity. Finally, participants' perceptions of benefits and difficulties of using the augmented reality application in this study were qualitatively identified. The results showed that the augmented reality approach was more effective in promoting students' knowledge of electromagnetic concepts and phenomena. The analysis also indicated that the augmented reality application led participants to reach higher flow experience levels than those achieved by users of the web-based application. However, not all the factors seem to have influence on learners' flow state, this study found that they were limited to: concentration, distorted sense of time, sense of control, clearer direct feedback, and autotelic experience. A deeper analysis of the flow process showed that neither of the groups reported being in flow in those tasks that were very easy or too difficult. However, for those tasks that were not perceived as difficult and included visualization clues, the experimental group showed higher levels of flow that the control group. The study suggests that augmented reality can be exploited as an effective learning environment for learning the basic principles of electromagnetism at high school provided that learning designers strike a careful balance between AR support and task difficulty. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000363818800003
Distance: 0.43484532833099365
Similarity: 0.5651546716690063
Title: Towards a conceptual framework for assessing the effectiveness of digital game-based learning
Abstract: In recent years, interest has grown in the systematic assessment of the effectiveness of digital game-based learning (DGBL). A conceptual framework describing what effectiveness means in the context of DGBL and which are its subcomponents has hitherto been lacking however. Hence, the goal of this paper is to propose a conceptualization and operationalization of effectiveness rooted in social-cognitive theory. In order to identify desired outcomes and be able to operationalize effectiveness, focus groups were organized with three stakeholder groups following a user requirements analysis methodology. Results indicate that three categories of desired outcomes can be distinguished: learning, motivational and efficiency outcomes. For the different outcomes, different subcomponents can be extracted which can be organized hierarchically. Learning outcomes that are seen as relevant to the effectiveness of DGBL are 1) increased interest in the subject matter, 2) improvement in objective performance (e.g., in a test), and 3) transfer, referring to the player's ability to apply acquired knowledge or skills to real-world situations. Relevant motivational outcomes concern 1) enjoyment, the extent to which playing the game evoked an enjoyable experience, and 2) increased motivation to learn using DGBL Efficiency outcomes relevant to DGBL effectiveness, finally, are related to 1) time management and 2) cost-effectiveness. Overall, it can be stated that a DGBL intervention is effective when it achieves similar or higher scores compared to other instructional methods in relation to any of the above mentioned outcomes without significantly (in the common, not the statistical sense) diminishing any of the others. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000364776900010
Distance: 0.4419395327568054
Similarity: 0.5580604672431946
Title: A Personalized User Authentication Approach Based on Individual Differences in Information Processing
Abstract: An effective user authentication mechanism should embrace both security and usability aspects as its purpose is to ensure safety of operation of online services but as well usability and transparency to its end users. In an attempt to improve the usability and overall experience of user interactions during authentication, this paper proposes an alternative approach of personalizing user authentication tasks based on individual differences in cognitive processing. The presented approach is mainly driven by theories on individual differences in cognitive styles which argue that individuals recall and process textual and graphical information differently. In this realm, the paper presents a 4-month user study in which 153 participants interacted with a personalized user authentication mechanism in an ecological valid context. Analysis of results shows that the presented user authentication approach is a promising alternative to current state of user authentication practices.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000346851800001
Distance: 0.4422066807746887
Similarity: 0.5577933192253113
Title: ENHANCING COLLABORATIVE LEARNING IN WIKIS THROUGH AN ITERATIVE MODEL BY SUPPORTING VARIOUS USER ROLES
Abstract: Web 2.0 paved the way for Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning (CSCL) using Wikis. However, basic Wikis have limited features in terms of catering for various roles and responsibilities of users causing hindrance for effective collaborative work among them. Hence, it is important to investigate how these varying roles can band together in a CSCL environment. This research recommends an iterative model with defined users and roles working in a collaborative environment. The study underwent a 3-week exercise, involving 16 participants belonging to the Bachelor of Information Technology program at a university in Malaysia. Data collected from these participants helped in evaluating the model proposed. Data collection techniques involved structured surveys and structured interviews to understand participants' perceptions during collaborative work (group assignment). The results gathered from the surveys were statistically tested using the non-parametric statistical test named "Wilcoxon signed-rank test". The proposed iterative model encouraged the students to be more active and responsible in the CSCL environment. Studyshowed that the inclusion of users and their roles helped in managing and performing group tasks. The research identified lists of users and roles working within the CSCL environment. The iterative model supported theseusers and roles, monitoring their progress using process checks.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000358988400005
Distance: 0.44353732466697693
Similarity: 0.5564626753330231
Title: Methodological Approach and Technological Framework to Break the Current Limitations of MOOC Model
Abstract: A methodological approach and technological framework are proposed to improve learning outcomes in Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs), taking into account the distinguishing features of this kind of massive courses over traditional online courses. The proposed methodology integrates the learning strategies of xMOOCs and cMOOCs with adaptivity and knowledge management capabilities. In order to test the learning results of the methodology and the need of supporting technological framework for it, a MOOC was made based on the methodological proposal and using a MOOC platform called MiriadaX. The quantitative results have improved considerably the MOOC completion rate (compared to the average of the rest of MOOC MiriadaX) and the qualitative results show a great satisfaction with the learning outcomes of the learners. However, the technological environment did not allow us develop all the methodological capabilities and it was one of the main concerns of the MOOC attendances. Therefore, from the analysis of collected data and considering the limitations of current MOOC technology platforms, a technological framework has been designed. It may incorporate the proposed methodology in an efficient and effective way. Based on this proposed technological framework, a MOOC platform has been developed and delivered, used by three Spanish Universities to offer MOOCs. This new platform and the supported technological framework have been tested with a first pilot with promising results.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000325600400005
Distance: 0.44389474391937256
Similarity: 0.5561052560806274
Title: Tracing knowledge co-evolution in a realistic course setting: A wiki-based field experiment
Abstract: The co-evolution model of collaborative knowledge building by Cress and Kimmerle (2008) assumes that cognitive and social processes interact when users build knowledge with shared digital artifacts. While these assumptions have been tested in various lab experiments, a test under natural field conditions in educational settings has not been conducted. Here, we present a field experiment where we triggered knowledge co-evolution in an accommodation and an assimilation condition, and measured effects on student knowledge building outside the laboratory in the context of two university courses. Therefore, 48 students received different kinds of prompts that triggered external accommodation and assimilation while writing a wiki text. Knowledge building was measured with a content analysis of the students' texts and comments (externalization), and with concept maps and association tests (internalization). The findings reveal that (a) different modes of externalization (accommodation and assimilation) could be triggered with prompts, (b) across both conditions, this externalization co-occurred with internalization (student learning), and (c) there is some evidence that external assimilation and accommodation had differential effects on internal assimilation and accommodation. Thus, the field experiment supports the assumptions of the co-evolution model in a realistic course setting. On a more general note, the study provides an example of how wikis can be used successfully for collaborative knowledge building within educational contexts. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000312231900011
Distance: 0.4445117712020874
Similarity: 0.5554882287979126
Title: Analyzing knowledge dimensions and cognitive process of a project-based online discussion instructional activity using Facebook in an adult and continuing education course
Abstract: In recent years, social networking services (SNSs), for example, Facebook, have shown exponential growth in their number of users. Witnessing the popularity of these SNSs, educational researchers have also explored the potential educational value of using SNSs. Despite the few studies that have investigated learners' attitudes toward and the effects of incorporating SNSs in class, limited attention has been paid to examining learners' knowledge and cognitive processes involved in online discussions using SNSs. Although general public interest in life-long learning has been gradually increasing, relatively little attention has been devoted to exploring the application of SNSs in adult and continuing education programs. To promote a better understanding of using SNSs in learning, this study seeks to explore learners' online discussion behaviors in an art course that involved a project-based learning activity using a popular SNS, Facebook, to support students' asynchronous online discussions. The participants in our study included 62 students enrolled in the school of continuing education at a university in northern Taiwan. Adapting the Revised Bloom's Taxonomy as a coding scheme, this study employed a quantitative content analysis (QCA) and lag sequential analysis (LSA) to examine the content and behavioral patterns of students' discussions. The results indicate that the most prominent knowledge dimension in students' discussions is the meta-cognitive knowledge, while the cognitive process is primarily focused on understanding and comprehension. In addition, a moderate proportion of off-topic discussion was found in this study. Considering the different behaviors that may be exhibited by members of varied age and gender, a further analysis based on students' individual differences was conducted. The results showed that, in the context of online discussions, female and older learners are more likely to engage in off-topic discussions. Based on these findings, this study suggests that when conducting online discussion activities using SNSs, instructors should consider the characteristics of adult learners and their individual differences and design their teaching activities accordingly. Implications and limitations of this study are discussed, and pedagogical suggestions for adapting SNSs to teaching activities for adult and continuing education are proposed. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000336872300006
Distance: 0.4464343190193176
Similarity: 0.5535656809806824
Title: A knowledge extraction and representation system for narrative analysis in the construction industry
Abstract: Many researchers advocate that the real-world narratives shared by experts or knowledge workers are helpful in teaching and educating novices to learn new knowledge and skills. Narrative analysis is a useful method for experts to understand narratives. However, it does not produce any clear or explicit layouts. This is not easy for a new learner without prior knowledge to glean the right messages from narratives within a short time. In this paper, a narrative knowledge extraction and representation system (NKERS) is presented to extract and represent narrative knowledge in an effective manner. The NKERS is composed of a narrative knowledge element extraction algorithm, a narrative knowledge representation method and a narrative knowledge database. A prototype system has been built and trial implemented in the construction industry. The results show that the domain experts agree that the narrative maps generated by the NKERS can effectively represent narrative elements and flows. Three-quarters of respondents expressed that they will use the produced narrative maps in their training courses to facilitate students' learning. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000313204700006
Distance: 0.4477981925010681
Similarity: 0.5522018074989319
Title: Architecture for Collaborative Learning Activities in Hybrid Learning Environments
Abstract: 3D virtual worlds are recognized as collaborative learning environments. However, the underlying technology is not sufficiently mature and the virtual worlds look cartoonish, unlinked to reality. Thus, it is important to enrich them with elements from the real world to enhance student engagement in learning activities. Our approach is to build learning environments where participants can either be in the real world or in its mirror world while sharing the same hybrid space in a collaborative learning experience. This paper focuses on the system architecture and a usability study of a proof-of-concept for these hybrid learning environments. The architecture allows the integration of the real world and its 3D virtual mirror; the exchange and geolocalization of multimodal information, and also the orchestration of learning activities. The results of the usability evaluation show positive engagement effects on participants in the mirror world and, to a lesser extent, on those in the real world.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000298524300003
Distance: 0.44801846146583557
Similarity: 0.5519815385341644
Title: E-tutorial support for collaborative online learning: An explorative study on experienced and inexperienced e-tutors
Abstract: The e-tutor plays a major role in supporting virtual collaborative learning, as he/she supervises learners in collaboratively solving tasks, acquiring new skills, and applying new knowledge. This study is aimed at gaining further insights into the daily support practices of e-tutors. Seventy-six e-tutors from 17 different European countries were invited to fill in an online questionnaire to evaluate collaborative activities, and to answer yes/no-questions regarding their intervention to support these collaborative activities. A cluster analysis identified two profiles of e-tutors according to the importance ascribed to collaborative activities, and to the number of times they intervened to foster such activities. The cluster validation revealed a difference between experienced and inexperienced European e-tutors in their support of online collaboration: e-tutors with experience considered specific cognitive activities to be more important for effective online collaboration, and they seemed to be more familiar in detecting and adequately intervening to avoid dysfunctional social phenomena. Thus, experience in supporting online collaboration seems to be a useful precondition for successfully intervening to stimulate necessary learning activities and to avoid dysfunctional collaborative activities. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000336820700002
Distance: 0.44856423139572144
Similarity: 0.5514357686042786
Title: Iterative augmentation of a medical training simulator: Effects of affective metacognitive scaffolding
Abstract: Experiential training simulators are gaining increasing popularity for job-related training due to their potential to engage and motivate adult learners. They are designed to provide learning experiences that are directly connected to users' work environments and support self-regulated learning. Nevertheless, learners often fail to transfer the knowledge gained in the simulated environment to real-world contexts. The EU-funded ImREAL project aimed to bridge that gap by developing a suite of intelligent services designed to enhance existing training simulators. This paper presents work that was a subset of this research project, reporting the iterative development and evaluation of a scaffolding service, which was integrated into a simulator for training medical students to perform diagnostic interviews. The study comprises three evaluation phases, comparing the pure simulator to a first version with metacognitive scaffolding and then to a final version with affective metacognitive scaffolding and enriched user modelling. The scaffolding service provides the learner with metacognitive prompts; affective elements are realized by an integrated affect reporting tool and affective prompts. Using a mixed-method approach by analysing questionnaires (N = 106) and log-data (N = 426), the effects of the services were investigated with respect to real-world relevance, self-regulated learning support, learning experience, and integration. Despite some limitations, the outcomes of this study demonstrate the usefulness of affective metacognitive scaffolding in the context of experiential training simulators; significant post-simulation increases in perceived relevance of the simulator, reflective note-taking, overall motivation, and feeling of success could be identified. Perceived usability and flow of the simulation increased, whereas overall workload and frustration decreased. However, low response rates to specific functions of the simulation point to a need to further investigate how to raise users' awareness and understanding of the provided tools, to encourage interaction with the services, and to better convey the benefits of using them. Thus, future challenges concern not so much technological developments for personalizing learning experiences, but rather new ways to change user attitudes towards an open approach to learning systems that enables them to benefit from all offered features. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000291823300009
Distance: 0.44927147030830383
Similarity: 0.5507285296916962
Title: SimCoL: A Simulation Tool for Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning
Abstract: Researchers designing the multiagent tools and techniques for computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) environments are often faced with high cost, time, and effort required to investigate the effectiveness of their tools and techniques in large scale and longitudinal studies in a real-world environment containing human users. Here, we propose SimCoL, a multiagent environment that simulates collaborative learning among students and agents providing support to the teacher and the students. Our goal with SimCoL is to provide a comprehensive test bed for multiagent researchers to investigate 1) theoretical multiagent research issues, e. g., coalition formation, multiagent learning, and communication, where humans are involved and 2) the impact and effectiveness of the design and implementation of various multiagent-based tools and techniques (e. g., multiagent-based human coalition formation) in a real world, distributed environment containing human users. Our results show that SimCoL 1) closely captures the individual and collective learning behaviors of the students in a CSCL environment; 2) identify the impact of various key elements of the CSCL environment (e. g., student attributes and group formation algorithm) on the collaborative learning of students; 3) compare and contrast the impact of agent-based versus nonagent-based group formation algorithms; and 4) provide insights into the effectiveness of agent-based instructor support for the students in a CSCL environment.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000284987900008
Distance: 0.44977810978889465
Similarity: 0.5502218902111053
Title: Enhancing synchronous collaboration by using interactive visualisation of modelled traces
Abstract: This article addresses issues related to traces modelling for formally describing human interactions of people engaged in a synchronous collaborative learning activity The objective is to propose models and tools for representing transforming sharing and visualising traces of users experiences The traces here represent the users activities in their interactions with the learning platform Our proposition is based on reflexive learning defined as the ability to interact with the situation in order to meet one s own limitations This work takes place in the ITHACA project which aims at developing an on-line learning platform that uses interaction traces as knowledge sources on and for the learners learning as individuals or groups In this paper we propose a general framework for trace management and sharing a generic model of synchronous collaborative activity based on the notion of interaction modes that we specialized for whiteboard sharing and text chatting and a conceptual framework for modelling the exploitation of modelled traces in particular for interactive visualisation on the user side This article extends our previous work [1] on the instrumented prototypes, by presenting our theorisation of the interactive visualisation of modelled traces (C) 2010 Elsevier B V All rights reserved

------------


###################################

