Related papers

Paper Id: WOS:000290744700009
Distance: 0.3677709400653839
Similarity: 0.6322290599346161
Title: Energy Efficient Block-Partitioned Multicore Processors for Parallel Applications
Abstract: Due to the increasing power consumption in modern computing systems, energy management has become an important research area in the last decade. Recently, multicore has emerged to be an energy efficient architecture that exploits parallelisms in modern applications. However, as the number of cores on a single chip continues to increase, it has been a grand challenge on how to effectively manage the energy efficiency of multicore-based systems. In this paper, based on the voltage island and dynamic voltage and frequency scaling (DVFS) techniques, we investigate the energy efficiency of block-partitioned multicore processors, where cores are grouped into blocks with the cores on one block sharing a DVFS-enabled power supply. Depending on the number of cores on each block, we study both symmetric and asymmetric block configurations. We develop a system-level power model (which can support various power management techniques) and derive both block- and system-wide energy-efficient frequencies for systems with block-partitioned multicore processors. Based on the power model, we prove that, for embarrassingly parallel applications, having all cores on a single block can achieve the same energy savings as that of the individual block configuration (where each core forms a single block and has its own power supply). However, for applications with limited degrees of parallelism, we show the superiority of the buddy-asymmetric block configuration, where the number of required blocks (and power supplies) is logarithmically related to the number of cores on the chip, in that it can achieve the same amount of energy savings as that of the individual block configuration. The energy efficiency of different block configurations is further evaluated through extensive simulations with both synthetic as well as a real life application.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000345523400009
Distance: 0.37537485361099243
Similarity: 0.6246251463890076
Title: Compiler Optimization for Reducing Leakage Power in Multithread BSP Programs
Abstract: Multithread programming is widely adopted in novel embedded system applications due to its high performance and flexibility. This article addresses compiler optimization for reducing the power consumption of multithread programs. A traditional compiler employs energy management techniques that analyze component usage in control-flow graphs with a focus on single-thread programs. In this environment the leakage power can be controlled by inserting on and off instructions based on component usage information generated by flow equations. However, these methods cannot be directly extended to a multithread environment due to concurrent execution issues. This article presents a multithread power-gating framework composed of multithread power-gating analysis (MTPGA) and predicated power-gating (PPG) energy management mechanisms for reducing the leakage power when executing multithread programs on simultaneous multithreading (SMT) machines. Our multithread programming model is based on hierarchical bulk-synchronous parallel (BSP) models. Based on a multithread component analysis with dataflow equations, our MTPGA framework estimates the energy usage of multithread programs and inserts PPG operations as power controls for energy management. We performed experiments by incorporating our power optimization framework into SUIF compiler tools and by simulating the energy consumption with a post-estimated SMT simulator based on Wattch toolkits. The experimental results show that the total energy consumption of a system with PPG support and our power optimization method is reduced by an average of 10.09% for BSP programs relative to a system without a power-gating mechanism on leakage contribution set to 30%; and the total energy consumption is reduced by an average of 4.27% on leakage contribution set to 10%. The results demonstrate our mechanisms are effective in reducing the leakage energy of BSP multithread programs.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000239055100006
Distance: 0.37625354528427124
Similarity: 0.6237464547157288
Title: Optimal simultaneous module and multivoltage assignment for low power
Abstract: Reducing power consumption through high-level synthesis has attracted a growing interest from researchers due to its large potential for power reduction. In this work we study functional unit binding ( or module assignment) given a scheduled data flow graph under a multi-Vdd framework. We assume that each functional unit can be driven by different Vdd levels dynamically during run time to save dynamic power. We develop a polynomial-time optimal algorithm for assigning low Vdds to as many operations as possible under the resource and latency constraints, and in the same time minimizing total switching activity through functional unit binding. Our algorithm shows consistent improvement over a design flow that separates voltage assignment from functional unit binding. We also change the initial scheduling to examine power/energy-latency tradeoff scenarios under different voltage level combinations. Experimental results show that we can achieve 28.1% and 33.4% power reductions when the latency bound is the tightest with two and three-Vdd levels respectively compared with the single-Vdd case. When latency is relaxed, multi-Vdd offers larger power reductions ( up to 46.7%). We also show comparison data of energy consumption under the same experimental settings.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000301630700015
Distance: 0.3829258382320404
Similarity: 0.6170741617679596
Title: EClass: An execution classification approach to improving the energy-efficiency of software via machine learning
Abstract: Energy efficiency at the software level has gained much attention in the past decade. This paper presents a performance-aware frequency assignment algorithm for reducing processor energy consumption using Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling (DVFS). Existing energy-saving techniques often rely on simplified predictions or domain knowledge to extract energy savings for specialized software (such as multimedia or mobile applications) or hardware (such as NPU or sensor nodes). We present an innovative framework, known as EClass, for general-purpose DVFS processors by recognizing short and repetitive utilization patterns efficiently using machine learning. Our algorithm is lightweight and can save up to 52.9% of the energy consumption compared with the classical PAST algorithm. It achieves an average savings of 9.1% when compared with an existing online learning algorithm that also utilizes the statistics from the current execution only. We have simulated the algorithms on a cycle-accurate power simulator. Experimental results show that EClass can effectively save energy for real life applications that exhibit mixed CPU utilization patterns during executions. Our research challenges an assumption among previous work in the research community that a simple and efficient heuristic should be used to adjust the processor frequency online. Our empirical result shows that the use of an advanced algorithm such as machine learning can not only compensate for the energy needed to run such an algorithm, but also outperforms prior techniques based on the above assumption. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000246045100011
Distance: 0.38561519980430603
Similarity: 0.614384800195694
Title: Integer linear programming and heuristic techniques for system-level low power scheduling on multiprocessor architectures under throughput constraints
Abstract: The increased complexity and performance requirements of embedded systems has led to the advent of programmable multiprocessor architectures. The paper presents system-level design techniques for minimizing the power consumption of throughput constrained periodic applications (such as multimedia and network processing) that are mapped to multiprocessor architectures. The paper discusses several design techniques that integrate dynamic voltage scaling (DVS) along with loop transformations (pipelining and unrolling), and apply dynamic power management (DPM) as the final design step. The paper presents an optimal mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) formulation along with three modifications that trade-off solution quality for reduced run times. The paper also presents a heuristic technique along with deterministic (LPP WUdet) and simulated annealing based (LPPWUsa) optimization strategies for solving the system-level low power design problem. The proposed techniques are evaluated by extensive experimentation with multimedia applications (MPEG-1 decoder, JPEG decoder, MP3 encoder), and synthetic taskgraphs (with 10-40 nodes). The proposed techniques are compared with two existing strategies that apply (i) loop pipelining (FP) with DPM but no DVS, and (ii) DVS and DPM but no loop transformations (LPS [Luo, Jha, Power conscious joint scheduling of periodic task graphs and aperiodic tasks in distributed real-time embedded systems, Proceedings of the International Conference on Computer Aided Design, November 2000]), respectively. The optimal MILP formulation, LPPWUdet and LPPWUsa give an average power reduction of 50.68%, 48.57% and 49.23%, respectively, for multimedia applications when compared against FP. While all our techniques are able to satisfy the performance constraints for JPEG and MPEG-1 decoding applications, the LPS technique fails in many cases. Further, the results produced by our deterministic and simulated annealing based techniques for multimedia benchmarks are on an average within 8.04% and 2.75%, respectively, of the optimum solution produced by the MILP based approach. The experimentation with large synthetic taskgraphs demonstrate that the run times of the heuristic techniques scale very well. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000316418300003
Distance: 0.38719314336776733
Similarity: 0.6128068566322327
Title: Runtime failure rate targeting for energy-efficient reliability in chip microprocessors
Abstract: Technology scaling is having an increasingly detrimental effect on microprocessor reliability, with increased variability and higher susceptibility to errors. At the same time, as integration of chip multiprocessors increases, power consumption is becoming a significant bottleneck. To ensure continued performance, growth of microprocessors requires development of powerful and energy-efficient solutions to reliability challenges. This paper presents a reliable multicore architecture that provides targeted error protection by adapting to the characteristics of individual cores and workloads, with the goal of providing reliability with minimum energy. The user can specify an acceptable reliability target for each chip, core, or application. The system then adjusts a range of parameters, including replication and supply voltage, to meet that reliability goal. In this multicore architecture, each core consists of a pair of pipelines that can run independently (running separate threads) or in concert (running the same thread and verifying results). Redundancy is enabled selectively, at functional unit granularity. The architecture also employs timing speculation for mitigation of variation-induced timing errors and to reduce the power overhead of error protection. On-line control based on machine learning dynamically adjusts multiple parameters to minimize energy consumption. Evaluation shows that dynamic adaptation of voltage and redundancy can reduce the energy delay product of a chip multiprocessor by 3060% compared with static dual modular redundancy. Copyright (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000321700400037
Distance: 0.40828216075897217
Similarity: 0.5917178392410278
Title: Energy-efficient carpool policy for wireless interfaces of mobile devices in ubiquitous environments
Abstract: Nowadays, power consumption is a big concern for mobile devices because battery power of mobile devices is one of the most crucial resources. Unfortunately, the performance of battery power fails to meet the power needs of high-end mobile devices. Increased data to be transferred/ received through wireless communication incur high power consumption, because the wireless communication interface is one of the most dominant modules of mobile devices in terms of power consumption. Therefore, efficient power management of wireless interfaces should be employed for mobile devices. Dynamic power management is widely employed in order to support multiple power modes such as active modes (e.g., transmit, receive, and idle mode) and inactive modes (e.g., sleep mode and power off). Therefore maximizing the staying time of the wireless interface in an inactive mode is an essential scheme to reduce energy expenditure. However, required overhead energy and time for turning on/off the wireless interface are not negligible. Most of recent works have been trying to enhance the hardware architecture or network/MAC protocols. In this paper, we present an energy-efficient carpool policy that turns on the wireless interface and transmits all awaited data only when the predefined threshold is exceeded. We propose two kinds of thresholds - time and space. For practical evaluation, we conduct not only simulations but also experimental measurements by implementing a test program on a real test bed. Results of simulation and experimental measurements show that our proposed scheme incurs less energy expenditure than legacy power management schemes do. (c) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000274794100005
Distance: 0.40850380063056946
Similarity: 0.5914961993694305
Title: Adaptive Power Management for Environmentally Powered Systems
Abstract: Recently, there has been a substantial interest in the design of systems that receive their energy from regenerative sources such as solar cells. In contrast to approaches that minimize the power consumption subject to performance constraints, we are concerned with optimizing the performance of an application while respecting the limited and time-varying amount of available power. In this paper, we address power management of, e. g., wireless sensor nodes which receive their energy from solar cells. Based on a prediction of the future available energy, we adapt parameters of the application in order to maximize the utility in a long-term perspective. The paper presents a formal model of the corresponding optimization problem including constraints concerning buffer sizes, timing, and rates. Instead of solving the optimization problem online which may be prohibitively complex in terms of running time and energy consumption, we apply multiparametric programming to precompute the application parameters offline for different environmental conditions and system states. In order to guarantee sustainable operation, we propose a hierarchical software design which comprises a worst-case prediction of the incoming energy. As a further contribution, we suggest a new method for approximate multiparametric linear programming which substantially lowers the computational demand and memory requirement of the embedded software. Our approaches are evaluated using long-term measurements of solar energy in an outdoor environment.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000258205900013
Distance: 0.416291743516922
Similarity: 0.583708256483078
Title: Combining system scenarios and configurable memories to tolerate unpredictability
Abstract: Process variability and the dynamism of new applications increase the uncertainty of embedded systems and force designers to use pessimistic assumptions, which have a tremendous impact on both the performance and energy consumption of their memory organizations. In this article we introduce an experimental framework which tries to mitigate the effects of both sources of unpredictability. At compile time, an extensive profiling helps us to detect system scenarios and bounds application dynamism. At the organization level, we incorporate a heterogeneous memory architecture composed by several configurable memories. A calibration process and a runtime control system adapt the platform to the current application needs. Our approach manages to reduce significantly the energy overhead associated to both variability and application dynamism (up to 60%, according to our simulations) without compromising the timing constraints existing in our target domain of dynamic periodic multimedia applications.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000305249000003
Distance: 0.4163356423377991
Similarity: 0.5836643576622009
Title: INTELLIGENT POWER MANAGEMENT FOR EMBEDDED WI-FI DEVICES
Abstract: With the increasing deployment of Wi-Fi devices in portable embedded systems, the low power design at system level has attracted considerable research attention in the recent past. In this paper, based on hardware features and software architecture of the embedded Wi-Fi devices, we focus on dynamic power management, dynamic frequency scaling, and their influences upon the system power and performance. We propose effective and realizable system power management solution and application modes under various application requirements, such as response, bandwidth, and speed. Experimental results show that the proposed solutions can achieve significant energy savings.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000246270500002
Distance: 0.41651055216789246
Similarity: 0.5834894478321075
Title: Power and reliability management of SoCs
Abstract: Today's embedded systems integrate multiple IP cores for processing, communication, and sensing on a single die as systems-on-chip (SoCs). Aggressive transistor scaling, decreased voltage margins and increased processor power and temperature have made reliability assessment a much more significant issue. Although reliability of devices and interconnect has been broadly studied, in this work, we study a tradeoff between reliability and power consumption for component-based SoC designs. We specifically focus on hard error rates as they cause a device to permanently stop operating. We also present a joint reliability and power management optimization problem whose solution is an optimal management policy. When careful joint policy optimization is performed, we obtain a significant improvement in energy consumption (40%) in tandem with meeting a reliability constraint for all SoC operating temperatures.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000364485400003
Distance: 0.41928088665008545
Similarity: 0.5807191133499146
Title: Towards a Cost-Efficient MapReduce: Mitigating Power Peaks for Hadoop Clusters
Abstract: Distributed data processing system is becoming one of the most important components for data-intensive computational tasks in the enterprise software infrastructure. Deploying and operating such systems require large amount of costs, including hardware costs to build clusters and energy costs to run clusters. To make these systems sustainable and scalable, power management has been an important research problem. In this paper, we take Hadoop as an example to illustrate the power peak problem which causes power inefficiency and provides in-depth analysis to explain issues with existing system designs. We propose a novel power capping module in the Hadoop scheduler to mitigate power peaks. Extensive simulation studies show that our proposed solution can effectively smooth the power consumption curve and mitigate temporary power peaks for Hadoop clusters.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000265827800005
Distance: 0.4192987382411957
Similarity: 0.5807012617588043
Title: Profile-based dynamic pipeline scaling
Abstract: Low power has played an increasingly important role for embedded systems. To save power, lowering voltage and frequency is very straightforward and effective; therefore, dynamic voltage scaling (DVS) has become a prevalent low-power technique. However, DVS makes no effect on power saving when the voltage reaches a lower bound. Fortunately, a technique called dynamic pipeline scaling (DPS) can overcome this limitation by switching pipeline modes at low-voltage level. Approaches proposed in previous work on DPS were based on hardware support. From viewpoint of compiler, little has been addressed on this issue. This paper presents a DPS optimization technique at compiler time to reduce power dissipation. The useful information of an application is exploited to devise an analytical model to assess the cost of enabling DPS mechanism. As a consequence, we can determine the switching timing between pipeline modes at compiler time without causing significant run-time overhead. The experimental result shows that our approach is effective in reducing energy consumption.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000348141600011
Distance: 0.41944465041160583
Similarity: 0.5805553495883942
Title: ILP Based Multithreaded Code Generation for Simulink Model
Abstract: The increasing complexity of embedded applications and the prevalence of multiprocessor system-on-chip (MPSoC) introduce a great challenge for designers on how to achieve performance and programmability simultaneously in embedded systems. Automatic multithreaded code generation methods taking account of performance optimization techniques can be an effective solution. In this paper, we consider the issue of increasing processor utilization and reducing communication cost during multithreaded code generation from Simulink models to improve system performance. We propose a combination of three-layered multithreaded software with Integer Linear Programming (ILP) based design-time mapping and scheduling policies to get optimal performance. The hierarchical software with a thread layer increases processor usage, while the mapping and scheduling policies formulate a group of integer linear programming formulations to minimize communication cost as well as to maximize performance. Experimental results demonstrate the advantages of the proposed techniques on performance improvements.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000270332700014
Distance: 0.42120426893234253
Similarity: 0.5787957310676575
Title: Energy-Minimized Design for IP Over WDM Networks
Abstract: As the Internet expands in reach and capacity, the energy consumption of network equipment increases. To date, the cost of transmission and switching equipment has been considered to be the major barrier to growth of the Internet. But energy consumption rather than cost of the component equipment may eventually become a barrier to continued growth. Research efforts on "greening the Internet" have been initiated in recent years, aiming to develop energy-efficient network architectures and operational strategies so as to reduce the energy consumption of the Internet. The direct benefits of such efforts are to reduce the operational costs in the network and cut the greenhouse footprint of the network. Second, from an engineering point of view, energy efficiency will assist in reducing the thermal issues associated with heat dissipation in large data centers and switching nodes. In the present research, we concentrate on minimizing the energy consumption of an IP over WDM network. We develop efficient approaches ranging from mixed integer linear programming (MILP) models to heuristics. These approaches are based on traditional virtual-topology and traffic grooming designs. The novelty of the framework involves the definition of an energy-oriented model for the IP over WDM network, the incorporation of the physical layer issues such as energy consumption of each component and the layout of optical amplifiers in the design, etc. Extensive optimization and simulation studies indicate that the proposed energy-minimized design can significantly reduce energy consumption of the IP over WDM network, ranging from 25% to 45%. Moreover, the proposed designs can also help equalize the power consumption at each network node. This is useful for real network deployment, in which each node location may be constrained by a limited electricity power supply. Finally, it is also interesting and useful to find that an energy-efficient network design is also a cost-efficient design because of the fact that IP router ports play a dominating role in both energy consumption and network cost in the IP over WDM network.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000300301800002
Distance: 0.42243167757987976
Similarity: 0.5775683224201202
Title: System-Level Synthesis for Wireless Sensor Node Controllers: A Complete Design Flow
Abstract: Wireless sensor networks (WSN) is a new and very challenging research field for embedded system design automation. Engineering a WSN node hardware platform is known to be a tough challenge, as the design must enforce many severe constraints, among which energy dissipation is by far the most important one. WSN node devices have until now been designed using off-the-shelf low-power microcontroller units (MCUs), even if their power dissipation is still an issue and hinders the widespread use of this new technology. In this work, we propose a complete system-level flow for an alternative approach based on the concept of hardware microtasks, which relies on hardware specialization and power gating to drastically improve the energy efficiency of the computational/control part of the node. Our case study shows that power savings between one to two orders of magnitude are possible w.r.t. MCU-based implementations.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000335559500011
Distance: 0.42395782470703125
Similarity: 0.5760421752929688
Title: Automatic runtime frequency-scaling system for energy savings in parallel applications
Abstract: Although high-performance computing has always been about efficient application execution, both energy and power consumption have become critical concerns owing to their effect on operating costs and failure rates of large-scale computing platforms. Modern processors provide techniques, such as dynamic voltage and frequency scaling (DVFS) and CPU clock modulation (called throttling), to improve energy efficiency on-the-fly. Without careful application, however, DVFS and throttling may cause a significant performance loss due to system overhead. This paper proposes a novel runtime system that maximizes energy saving by selecting appropriate values for DVFS and throttling in parallel applications. Specifically, the system automatically predicts communication phases in parallel applications and applies frequency scaling considering both the CPU offload, provided by the network-interface card, and the architectural stalls during computation. Experiments, performed on NAS parallel benchmarks as well as on real-world applications in molecular dynamics and linear system solution, demonstrate that the proposed runtime system obtaining energy savings of as much as 14 % with a low performance loss of about 2 %.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000319678800017
Distance: 0.42478951811790466
Similarity: 0.5752104818820953
Title: Survey of Energy-Cognizant Scheduling Techniques
Abstract: Execution time is no longer the only metric by which computational systems are judged. In fact, explicitly sacrificing raw performance in exchange for energy savings is becoming a common trend in environments ranging from large server farms attempting to minimize cooling costs to mobile devices trying to prolong battery life. Hardware designers, well aware of these trends, include capabilities like DVFS (to throttle core frequency) into almost all modern systems. However, hardware capabilities on their own are insufficient and must be paired with other logic to decide if, when, and by how much to apply energy-minimizing techniques while still meeting performance goals. One obvious choice is to place this logic into the OS scheduler. This choice is particularly attractive due to the relative simplicity, low cost, and low risk associated with modifying only the scheduler part of the OS. Herein we survey the vast field of research on energy-cognizant schedulers. We discuss scheduling techniques to perform energy-efficient computation. We further explore how the energy-cognizant scheduler's role has been extended beyond simple energy minimization to also include related issues like the avoidance of negative thermal effects as well as addressing asymmetric multicore architectures.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000313302000002
Distance: 0.4258559048175812
Similarity: 0.5741440951824188
Title: Techniques to Measure, Model, and Manage Power
Abstract: Society's increasing dependence on information technology has resulted in the deployment of vast compute resources. The energy costs of operating these resources coupled with environmental concerns have made energy-aware computing one of the primary challenges for the IT sector. Making energy-efficient computing a rule rather than an exception requires that researchers and system designers use the right set of techniques and tools. These involve measuring, analyzing, and controlling the energy expenditure of computers at varying degrees of granularity. In this chapter, we present techniques to measure power consumption of computer systems at various levels and to compare their effectiveness. We discuss methodologies to estimate processor power consumption using performance-counter-based power modeling and show how the power models can be used for power-aware scheduling. Armed with such techniques and methodologies, we as a research and development community can better address challenges in power-aware management.

------------


###################################

