Related papers

Paper Id: WOS:000354135700002
Distance: 0.4149501919746399
Similarity: 0.5850498080253601
Title: Stacked Predictive Sparse Decomposition for Classification of Histology Sections
Abstract: Image-based classification of histology sections, in terms of distinct components (e.g., tumor, stroma, normal), provides a series of indices for histology composition (e.g., the percentage of each distinct components in histology sections), and enables the study of nuclear properties within each component. Furthermore, the study of these indices, constructed from each whole slide image in a large cohort, has the potential to provide predictive models of clinical outcome. For example, correlations can be established between the constructed indices and the patients' survival information at cohort level, which is a fundamental step towards personalized medicine. However, performance of the existing techniques is hindered as a result of large technical variations (e.g., variations of color/textures in tissue images due to non-standard experimental protocols) and biological heterogeneities (e.g., cell type, cell state) that are always present in a large cohort. We propose a system that automatically learns a series of dictionary elements for representing the underlying spatial distribution using stacked predictive sparse decomposition. The learned representation is then fed into the spatial pyramid matching framework with a linear support vector machine classifier. The system has been evaluated for classification of distinct histological components for two cohorts of tumor types. Throughput has been increased by using of graphical processing unit (GPU), and evaluation indicates a superior performance results, compared with previous research.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000263399300004
Distance: 0.42400112748146057
Similarity: 0.5759988725185394
Title: Analysis and recognition of touching cell images based on morphological structures
Abstract: Automated analysis and recognition of cell-nuclear phases using fluorescence microscopy images play an important role for high-content screening. A major task of automated imaging based high-content screening is to segment and reconstruct each cell from the touching cell images. In this paper we present new useful method for recognizing morphological structural models of touching cells, detecting segmentation points, determining the number of segmented cells in touching cell image, finding the related data of segmented cell arcs and reconstructing segmented cells. The conceptual frameworks are based on the morphological structures where a series of structural points and their morphological relationships are established. Experiment results have shown the efficient application of the new method for analysis and recognition of touching cell images of high-content screening. (c) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000272432300076
Distance: 0.42512720823287964
Similarity: 0.5748727917671204
Title: Fusion of systems for automated cell phenotype image classification
Abstract: Automated cell phenotype image classification is related to the problem of determining locations of protein expression within living cells. Localization of proteins in cells is directly related to their functions and it is crucial for several applications ranging from early diagnosis of a disease to monitoring of therapeutic effectiveness of drugs. Recent advances in imaging instruments and biological reagents have allowed fluorescence microscopy to be extensively used as a too[ to understand biology at the cellular level by means of the visualization of biological activity within cells. However, human classification of fluorescence cell micrographs is still subjective and very time consuming, thus an automated approach for the systematic determination of protein subcellular locations from fluorescence microscopy images is required. Existing approaches concentrated on designing a set of optimal features and then applying standard machine-learning algorithms. This paper takes into consideration the best methods proposed in the literature and Focuses on the study of ensemble machine learning techniques for cell phenotype image classification. Two techniques are tested for the classification: a random subspace of Levenberg-Marquardt neural networks and a variant of the AdaBoost. Each of these two methods are tested with different feature sets, moreover the fusion between the two ensembles is studied. The best ensemble tested in this work obtains an outstanding 97.5% accuracy in the 2D-Hela dataset, which to the best of our knowledge is the best performance obtained on this dataset (the most used benchmark for comparing automated cell phenotype image classification approaches). (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000340341400042
Distance: 0.4316844046115875
Similarity: 0.5683155953884125
Title: cDNA microarray adaptive segmentation
Abstract: DNA microarray technology has enabled biologists to study all the genes within an entire organism to obtain a global view of genes' interaction and regulation. This technology has a great potential in obtaining a deep understanding of the functional organization of cells. This paper is concerned with improving the processes involved in the analysis of microarray image data. The main focus is to clarify an image's feature space in an unsupervised manner. Rather than using the raw microarray image, it proposes to produce filtered versions of the image data by applying nonlinear anisotropic diffusion so that the dynamic range of the image could be increased and, therefore, a better ability of signal extraction could be achieved. In this paper, a novel segmentation algorithm is developed. This algorithm is based on the Cellular Neural Network computational paradigm integrated with median and anisotropic diffusion filters. The AnaLogic CNN Simulation Toolbox for MATLAB (InstantVision Toolboxes for MATLAB) is used during the segmentation process. Quantitative comparisons among the proposed methods and GenePix (R) are carried out from both the objective and subjective points of view. It is shown that analogic algorithm integrated with Complex Diffusion filter is the best one to be applied to accomplish the segmentation. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000301198000015
Distance: 0.4318245053291321
Similarity: 0.5681754946708679
Title: Three-Dimensional In Silico Breast Phantoms for Multimodal Image Simulations
Abstract: Anatomic simulators have provided researchers with the realistic objects needed to develop and evaluate medical imaging approaches. Today we have new insights into the cellular biology of breast tissues that is driving many new targeted diagnostic and therapeutic approaches, including molecular imaging. We report on our initial efforts to build a scalable framework for the construction of realistic 3-D in silico breast phantoms (ISBP) capable of leveraging existing knowledge and yet adaptable to fully integrate future discoveries. The ISBP frames are developed with scalable anatomical shapes and morphologic features as adapted from a rich literature on this topic. Frames are populated with tissue subtypes essential for imaging and object contrast functions are assigned. These data can be resampled to match the intrinsics scales of various imaging modalities; we explore mammography, sonography and computed tomography. Initial comparisons between simulated and clinical images demonstrate reasonable agreement and provides guidance for future development of a more realistic ISBP. An end-to-end simulation of breast images is described to demonstrate techniques for including stochastic variability and deterministic physical principles on which image formation is based.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000240369400001
Distance: 0.4416835308074951
Similarity: 0.5583164691925049
Title: An integrative software package for gastrointestinal biomagnetic data acquisition and analysis using SQUID magnetometers
Abstract: The study of bioelectric and biomagnetic activity in the human gastrointestinal (GI) tract is of great interest in clinical research due to the proven possibility to detect pathological conditions thereof from electric and magnetic field recordings. The magnetogastrogram (MGG) and magnetoenterogram (MENG) can be recorded using superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID) magnetometers, which are the most sensitive magnetic flux-to-voltage converters currently available. To address the urgent need for powerful acquisition and analysis software tools faced by many researchers and clinicians in this important area of investigation, an integrative and modular computer program was developed for the acquisition, processing and analysis of GI SQUID signals. In addition to a robust hardware implementation for efficient data acquisition, a number of signal processing and analysis modules were developed to serve in a variety of both clinical procedures and scientific investigations. Implemented software features include data processing and visualization, waterfall plots of signal frequency spectra as well as spatial maps of GI signal frequencies. Moreover, a software tool providing powerful 3D visualizations of GI signals was created using realistic models of the human torso and internal organs. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000310719300004
Distance: 0.44676485657691956
Similarity: 0.5532351434230804
Title: Image Analysis and Modeling in Medical Image Computing Recent Developments and Advances
Abstract: Background: Medical image computing is of growing importance in medical diagnostics and image-guided therapy. Nowadays, image analysis systems integrating advanced image computing methods are used in practice e.g. to extract quantitative image parameters or to support the surgeon during a navigated intervention. However, the grade of automation, accuracy, reproducibility and robustness of medical image computing methods has to be increased to meet the requirements in clinical routine. Objectives: In the focus theme, recent developments and advances in the field of modeling and model-based image analysis are described. The introduction of models in the image analysis process enables improvements of image analysis algorithms in terms of automation, accuracy, reproducibility and robustness. Furthermore, model-based image computing techniques open up new perspectives for prediction of organ changes and risk analysis of patients. Methods: Selected contributions are assembled to present latest advances in the field. The authors were invited to present their recent work and results based on their outstanding contributions to the Conference on Medical Image Computing BVM 2011 held at the University of Lubeck, Germany. All manuscripts had to pass a comprehensive peer review. Results: Modeling approaches and model-based image analysis methods showing new trends and perspectives in model-based medical image computing are described. Complex models are used in different medical applications and medical images like radiographic images, dual-energy CT images, MR images, diffusion tensor images as well as microscopic images are analyzed. The applications emphasize the high potential and the wide application range of these methods. Conclusions: The use of model-based image analysis methods can improve segmentation quality as well as the accuracy and reproducibility of quantitative image analysis. Furthermore, image-based models enable new insights and can lead to a deeper understanding of complex dynamic mechanisms in the human body. Hence, model-based image computing methods are important tools to improve medical diagnostics and patient treatment in future.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000293258800006
Distance: 0.452267587184906
Similarity: 0.547732412815094
Title: A comparative study of state-of-the-art evolutionary image registration methods for 3D modeling
Abstract: Image registration (IR) aims to find a transformation between two or more images acquired under different conditions. This problem has been established as a very active research field in computer vision during the last few decades. IR has been applied to a high number of real-world problems ranging from remote sensing to medical imaging, artificial vision, and computer-aided design. Recently, there is an increasing interest on the application of the evolutionary computation paradigm to this field in order to solve the ever recurrent drawbacks of traditional image registration methods as the iterated closest point algorithm. Specially, evolutionary image registration methods have demonstrated their ability as robust approaches to the problem. Unlike classical IR methods, they show the advantage of not requiring a good initial estimation of the image alignment to proceed. In this contribution, we aim to review the state-of-the-art image registration methods that lay their foundations on evolutionary computation. Moreover, we aim to analyze the performance of some of the latter approaches when tackle a challenging real-world application in forensic anthropology, the 3D modeling of forensic objects. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000238714200028
Distance: 0.45369789004325867
Similarity: 0.5463021099567413
Title: Automated extraction of fine features of kinetochore microtubules and plus-ends from electron tomography volume
Abstract: Kinetochore microtubules (KMTs) and the associated plus-ends have been areas of intense investigation in both cell biology and molecular medicine. Though electron tomography opens up new possibilities in understanding their function by imaging their high-resolution structures, the interpretation of the acquired data remains an obstacle because of the complex and cluttered cellular environment. As a result, practical segmentation of the electron tomography data has been dominated by manual operation, which is time consuming and subjective. In this paper, we propose a model-based automated approach to extracting KMTs and the associated plus-ends with a coarse-to-fine scale scheme consisting of volume preprocessing, microtubule segmentation and plus-end tracing. In volume preprocessing, we first apply an anisotropic invariant wavelet transform and a tube-enhancing filter to enhance the microtubules at coarse level for localization. This is followed with a surface-enhancing filter to accentuate the fine microtubule boundary features. The microtubule body is then segmented using a modified active shape model method. Starting from the segmented microtubule body, the plus-ends are extracted with a probabilistic tracing method improved with rectangular window based feature detection and the integration of multiple cues. Experimental results demonstrate that our automated method produces results comparable to manual segmentation but using only a fraction of the manual segmentation time.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000324008800001
Distance: 0.4539402723312378
Similarity: 0.5460597276687622
Title: Image database analysis of Hodgkin lymphoma
Abstract: Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) is a special type of B cell lymphoma, arising from germinal center B-cells. Morphological and immunohistochemical features of HL as well as the spatial distribution of malignant cells differ from other lymphoma and cancer types. Sophisticated protocols for immunostaining and the acquisition of high-resolution images become routine in pathological labs. Large and daily growing databases of high-resolution digital images are currently emerging. A systematic tissue image analysis and computer-aided exploration may provide new insights into HL pathology. The automated analysis of high resolution images, however, is a hard task in terms of required computing time and memory. Special concepts and pipelines for analyzing high-resolution images can boost the exploration of image databases. In this paper, we report an analysis of digital color images recorded in high-resolution of HL tissue slides. Applying a protocol of CD30 immunostaining to identify malignant cells, we implement a pipeline to handle and explore image data of stained HL tissue images. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first systematic application of image analysis to HL tissue slides. To illustrate the concept and methods we analyze images of two different HL types, nodular sclerosis and mixed cellularity as the most common forms and reactive lymphoid tissue for comparison. We implemented a pipeline which is adapted to the special requirements of whole slide images of HL tissue and identifies relevant regions that contain malignant cells. Using a preprocessing approach, we separate the relevant tissue region from the background. We assign pixels in the images to one of the six predefined classes: Hematoxylin(+), CD30(+), Nonspecific red, Unstained, Background, and Low intensity, applying a supervised recognition method. Local areas with pixels assigned to the class CD30(+) identify regions of interest. As expected, an increased amount of CD30(+) pixels is a characteristic feature of nodular sclerosis, and the non-lymphoma cases show a characteristically low amount of CD30(+) stain. Images of mixed cellularity samples include cases of high CD30(+) coloring as well as cases of low CD30(+) coloring. (c) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000249818500009
Distance: 0.4574476480484009
Similarity: 0.5425523519515991
Title: Improving gene quantification by adjustable spot-image restoration
Abstract: Motivation: One of the major factors that complicate the task of microarray image analysis is that microarray images are distorted by various types of noise. In this study a robust framework is proposed, designed to take into account the effect of noise in microarray images in order to assist the demanding task of microarray image analysis. The proposed framework, incorporates in the microarray image processing pipeline a novel combination of spot adjustable image analysis and processing techniques and consists of the following stages: (1) gridding for facilitating spot identification, (2) clustering (unsupervised discrimination between spot and background pixels) applied to spot image for automatic local noise assessment, (3) modeling of local image restoration process for spot image conditioning (adjustable wiener restoration using an empirically determined degradation function), (4) automatic spot segmentation employing seeded-region-growing, (5) intensity extraction and (6) assessment of the reproducibility (real data) and the validity (simulated data) of the extracted gene expression levels. Results: Both simulated and real microarray images were employed in order to assess the performance of the proposed framework against well-established methods implemented in publicly available software packages (Scanalyze and SPOT). Regarding simulated images, the novel combination of techniques, introduced in the proposed framework, rendered the detection of spot areas and the extraction of spot intensities more accurate. Furthermore, on real images the proposed framework proved of better stability across replicates. Results indicate that the proposed framework improves spots' segmentation and, consequently, quantification of gene expression levels. Availability: All algorithms were implemented in Matlab (TM) (The Mathworks, Inc., Natick, MA, USA) environment. The codes that implement microarray gridding, adaptive spot restoration and segmentation/ intensity extraction are available upon request. Supplementary results and the simulated microarray images used in this study are available for download from: ftp://users:bioinformatics@mipa.med.upatras.gr Contact: daskalakis@med.upatras.gr Supplementary information: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000307582100011
Distance: 0.46090325713157654
Similarity: 0.5390967428684235
Title: Diderot: A Parallel DSL for Image Analysis and Visualization
Abstract: Research scientists and medical professionals use imaging technology, such as computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to measure a wide variety of biological and physical objects. The increasing sophistication of imaging technology creates demand for equally sophisticated computational techniques to analyze and visualize the image data. Analysis and visualization codes are often crafted for a specific experiment or set of images, thus imaging scientists need support for quickly developing codes that are reliable, robust, and efficient. In this paper, we present the design and implementation of Diderot, which is a parallel domain-specific language for biomedical image analysis and visualization. Diderot supports a high-level model of computation that is based on continuous tensor fields. These tensor fields are reconstructed from discrete image data using separable convolution kernels, but may also be defined by applying higher-order operations, such as differentiation (del). Early experiments demonstrate that Diderot provides both a high-level concise notation for image analysis and visualization algorithms, as well as high sequential and parallel performance.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000321142500029
Distance: 0.4662480056285858
Similarity: 0.5337519943714142
Title: Semiautomatic White Blood Cell Segmentation Based on Multiscale Analysis
Abstract: This paper approaches novel methods to segment the nucleus and cytoplasm of white blood cells (WBC). This information is the basis to perform higher level tasks such as automatic differential counting, which plays an important role in the diagnosis of different diseases. We explore the image simplification and contour regularization resulting from the application of the selfdual multiscale morphological toggle (SMMT), an operator with scale-space properties. To segment the nucleus, the image preprocessing with SMMT has shown to be essential to ensure the accuracy of two well-known image segmentations techniques, namely, watershed transform and Level-Set methods. To identify the cytoplasm region, we propose two different schemes, based on granulometric analysis and on morphological transformations. The proposed methods have been successfully applied to a large number of images, showing promising segmentation and classification results for varying cell appearance and image quality, encouraging future works.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000337873700025
Distance: 0.4675224721431732
Similarity: 0.5324775278568268
Title: EigenBlock algorithm for change detection - An application of adaptive dictionary learning techniques
Abstract: Change detection methods are very important in many areas such as medical imaging and remote sensing. In particular, identifying the changes in medical images taken at different times is of great relevance in clinical practice. The key of detecting changes in medical images is to detect disease-related changes while rejecting "unimportant" induced by noise, mis-alignment changes, and other common acquisition-related artifacts (such as inhomogeneity). In this paper we first summarize the existing methods for automatic change detection, and propose a new approach for detecting changes based on local dictionary learning techniques. In addition we aim to automatically ignore insignificant changes. Our new approach uses 1,2 norm as similarity measure to learn the dictionary. We also apply knowledge of principal component analysis as a feature extraction tool, to eliminate the redundancy and hence to increase the computational efficiency. The performance of the algorithm is validated with synthetic and clinical images. Crown Copyright (C) 2013 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000244574600007
Distance: 0.47096920013427734
Similarity: 0.5290307998657227
Title: Objectively adaptive image fusion
Abstract: Signal-level image fusion has been the focus of considerable research attention in recent years with a plethora of algorithms proposed, using a host of image processing and information fusion techniques. Yet what is an optimal information fusion strategy or spectral decomposition that should precede it for any multi-sensor data cannot be defined a priori. This could be learned by either evaluating fusion algorithms subjectively or indeed through a small number of available objective metrics on a large set of relevant sample data. This is not practical however and is limited in that it provides no guarantee of optimal performance should realistic input conditions be different from the sample data. This paper proposes and examines the viability of a powerful framework for objectively adaptive image fusion that explicitly optimises fusion performance for a broad range of input conditions. The idea is to employ the concepts used in objective image fusion evaluation to optimally adapt the fusion process to the input conditions. Specific focus is on fusion for display, which has broad appeal in a wide range of fusion applications such as night vision, avionics and medical imaging. By integrating objective fusion metrics shown to be subjectively relevant into conventional fusion algorithms the framework is used to adapt fusion parameters to achieve optimal fusion display. The results show that the proposed framework achieves a considerable improvement in both level and robustness of fusion performance on a wide array of multi-sensor images and image sequences. (C) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000342256200020
Distance: 0.47338876128196716
Similarity: 0.5266112387180328
Title: A spatially-distributed computational model to quantify behaviour of contrast agents in MR perfusion imaging
Abstract: Contrast agent enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) perfusion imaging provides an early, non-invasive indication of defects in the coronary circulation. However, the large variation of contrast agent properties, physiological state and imaging protocols means that optimisation of image acquisition is difficult to achieve. This situation motivates the development of a computational framework that, in turn, enables the efficient mapping of this parameter space to provide valuable information for optimisation of perfusion imaging in the clinical context. For this purpose a single-compartment porous medium model of capillary blood flow is developed which is coupled with a scalar transport model, to characterise the behaviour of both blood-pool and freely-diffusive contrast agents characterised by their ability to diffuse through the capillary wall into the extra-cellular space. A parameter space study is performed on the non-dimensionalised equations using a 2D model for both healthy and diseased myocardium, examining the sensitivity of system behaviour to Peclet number, Damkohler number (Da), diffusivity ratio and fluid porosity. Assuming a linear MR signal response model, sample concentration time series data are calculated, and the sensitivity of clinically-relevant properties of these signals to the model parameters is quantified. Both upslope and peak values display significant non-monotonic behaviour with regard to the Damkohler number, with these properties showing a high degree of sensitivity in the parameter range relevant to contrast agents currently in use. However, the results suggest that signal upslope is the more robust and discerning metric for perfusion quantification, in particular for correlating with perfusion defect size. Finally, the results were examined in the context of nonlinear signal response, flow quantification via Fermi deconvolution and perfusion reserve index, which demonstrated that there is no single best set of contrast agent parameters, instead the contrast agents should be tailored to the specific imaging protocol and post-processing method to be used. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/).

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000326053000004
Distance: 0.4760816693305969
Similarity: 0.5239183306694031
Title: Generating anatomical models of the heart and the aorta from medical images for personalized physiological simulations
Abstract: The anatomy and motion of the heart and the aorta are essential for patient-specific simulations of cardiac electrophysiology, wall mechanics and hemodynamics. Within the European integrated project euHeart, algorithms have been developed that allow to efficiently generate patient-specific anatomical models from medical images from multiple imaging modalities. These models, for instance, account for myocardial deformation, cardiac wall motion, and patient-specific tissue information like myocardial scar location. Furthermore, integration of algorithms for anatomy extraction and physiological simulations has been brought forward. Physiological simulations are linked closer to anatomical models by encoding tissue properties, like the muscle fibers, into segmentation meshes. Biophysical constraints are also utilized in combination with image analysis to assess tissue properties. Both examples show directions of how physiological simulations could provide new challenges and stimuli for image analysis research in the future.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000278689000005
Distance: 0.4771164655685425
Similarity: 0.5228835344314575
Title: A spectral graph theoretic approach to quantification and calibration of collective morphological differences in cell images
Abstract: Motivation: High-throughput image-based assay technologies can rapidly produce a large number of cell images for drug screening, but data analysis is still a major bottleneck that limits their utility. Quantifying a wide variety of morphological differences observed in cell images under different drug influences is still a challenging task because the result can be highly sensitive to sampling and noise. Results: We propose a graph-based approach to cell image analysis. We define graph transition energy to quantify morphological differences between image sets. A spectral graph theoretic regularization is applied to transform the feature space based on training examples of extremely different images to calibrate the quantification. Calibration is essential for a practical quantification method because we need to measure the confidence of the quantification. We applied our method to quantify the degree of partial fragmentation of mitochondria in collections of fluorescent cell images. We show that with transformation, the quantification can be more accurate and sensitive than that without transformation. We also show that our method outperforms competing methods, including neighbourhood component analysis and the multi-variate drug profiling method by Loo et al. We illustrate its utility with a study of Annonaceous acetogenins, a family of compounds with drug potential. Our result reveals that squamocin induces more fragmented mitochondria than muricin A.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000347268200015
Distance: 0.4778568744659424
Similarity: 0.5221431255340576
Title: Right ventricle segmentation from cardiac MRI: A collation study
Abstract: Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), a reference examination for cardiac morphology and function in humans, allows to image the cardiac right ventricle (RV) with high spatial resolution. The segmentation of the RV is a difficult task due to the variable shape of the RV and its ill-defined borders in these images. The aim of this paper is to evaluate several RV segmentation algorithms on common data. More precisely, we report here the results of the Right Ventricle Segmentation Challenge (RVSC), concretized during the MICCAI'12 Conference with an on-site competition. Seven automated and semi-automated methods have been considered, along them three atlas-based methods, two prior based methods, and two prior-free, image-driven methods that make use of cardiac motion. The obtained contours were compared against a manual tracing by an expert cardiac radiologist, taken as a reference, using Dice metric and Hausdorff distance. We herein describe the cardiac data composed of 48 patients, the evaluation protocol and the results. Best results show that an average 80% Dice accuracy and a 1 cm Hausdorff distance can be expected from semi-automated algorithms for this challenging task on the datasets, and that an automated algorithm can reach similar performance, at the expense of a high computational burden. Data are now publicly available and the website remains open for new submissions (http://www.litislab.eu/rvsc/). (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000348748200018
Distance: 0.47806742787361145
Similarity: 0.5219325721263885
Title: Genetic fuzzy rule based classification systems for coronary plaque characterization based on intravascular ultrasound images
Abstract: Vascular tissue characterization is of great importance concerning the possibility of an Acute Cardiac Syndrome (ACS). Gray-scale intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) is a powerful tomographic modality providing a thorough visualization of coronary arteries. Among the existing methods, virtual histology (VH) is the most popular and clinically available technique for plaque component analysis. IVUS-VH though suffers from a poor longitudinal resolution due to the electrocardiogram (ECG)-gated frame acquisition. In order to surmount this demerit, a new image-based methodology for plaque assessment is suggested in this paper that differentiates tissue components into four classes: calcium, necrotic core, fibrous and fibro-lipid. The available IVUS frames characterized by VH are used for plaque labeling. In addition, a rich set of five textural feature families are extracted from IVUS images and computed at different scales. To increase the discrimination capabilities between the classes, all features are combined into an integrated feature vector. The classification of plaque types is accomplished using a genetic fuzzy rule-based classification system (GFRBCS) that is able to handle effectively highly-dimensional feature spaces. The incorporated feature selection mechanism along with the rule extraction algorithm allows the creation of compact fuzzy rule bases with enhanced classification accuracy. The high interpretability properties of our classifier assist physicians to gain a deeper insight regarding the impact of features involved in the evaluation of atherosclerotic plaques. An extensive experimental analysis is carried out, where various tests are performed in order to highlight the advantages of the proposed scheme against existing methods of the literature, including other GRBCSs and the support vector machine (SVM) classifier. In particular, the attained results show that the applied classifier exhibits better generalization capabilities than the competing methods, i.e., higher accuracy in characterizing unseen IVUS images. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------


###################################

