Related papers

Paper Id: WOS:000279137800024
Distance: 0.1732342392206192
Similarity: 0.8267657607793808
Title: A web-based learning tool improves student performance in statistics: A randomized masked trial
Abstract: Background: e-status is a web-based tool able to generate different statistical exercises and to provide immediate feedback to students' answers. Although the use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) is becoming widespread in undergraduate education, there are few experimental studies evaluating its effects on learning. Method: All of the students (121) from an introductory course for statistics in dentistry were randomly assigned to use the tool with one of two 6-problem sets, known as types A and B. The primary endpoint was the grade difference obtained in the final exam, composed of two blocks of questions related to types A and B. The exam evaluator was masked to the intervention group. Results: We found that the effect of e-status on the student grade was an improvement of 0.48 points (95% Cl: 0.10-0.86) on a ten-point scale. Among the 94 students who actually employed e-status, the effect size was 0.63 (95% Cl: 0.17-1.10). Conclusions: It is feasible to formally assess the learning effect of an innovative tool. Providing e-status exercises to students has a direct effect on learning numerical operations related to statistics. Further effects on higher cognitive levels still have to be explored. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000317027500004
Distance: 0.17585858702659607
Similarity: 0.8241414129734039
Title: Adaptive diagrams: Handing control over to the learner to manage split-attention online
Abstract: Based on cognitive load theory, it is well known that when studying a diagram that includes explanatory text, optimal learning occurs when the text is physically positioned close to the diagram as it eliminates the need for learners to split their attention between the two sources of information. What is not known is the effect on learning when learners manage split-attention for themselves when presented with a separated diagram and explanatory text. This study focuses on this new research direction by examining how learners can self-manage cognitive load through the physical manipulation of digital materials. Physical manipulation refers to moving text objects in digital materials to connect related pieces of textual information to a diagram, thus adapting the diagram to reduce split-attention. Fifty-two university students participated in one of two experiments. Experiment 1 (N = 34) investigated whether learners who were guided to self-manage split-attention by moving text objects on a screen displaying instructional material with evident split-attention were able to reduce split-attention and thus outperform learners who were provided split-source materials. Experiment 2 (N = 18) collected verbal think-aloud protocols to uncover the students' learning processes with the materials. Results confirmed the split-attention effect thus replicating this effect in a digital domain. Furthermore, whilst the self-managed condition did not significantly outperform the split-attention condition, the added task for learners to move text boxes to relevant aspects of the diagram did not have an adverse effect on learning, as the self-managed condition performed as well as (and for a recall task slightly better than) the split-attention condition. The verbal protocols highlighted that in order for learners to successfully self-manage split-attention training and guidance needs to be more extensive and explicit. Implications for further research for this new research direction in cognitive load theory are discussed. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000295860100006
Distance: 0.18260248005390167
Similarity: 0.8173975199460983
Title: LdShake: Learning design solutions sharing and co-edition
Abstract: Two important challenges that teachers are currently facing are the sharing and the collaborative authoring of their learning design solutions, such as didactical units and learning materials. On the one hand, there are tools that can be used for the creation of design solutions and only some of them facilitate the co-edition. However, they do not incorporate mechanisms that support the sharing of the designs between teachers. On the other hand, there are tools that serve as repositories of educational resources but they do not enable the authoring of the designs. In this paper we present LdShake, a web tool whose novelty is focused on the combined support for the social sharing and co-edition of learning design solutions within communities of teachers. Teachers can create and share learning designs with other teachers using different access rights so that they can read, comment or co-edit the designs. Therefore, each design solution is associated to a group of teachers able to work on its definition, and another group that can only see the design. The tool is generic in that it allows the creation of designs based on any pedagogical approach. However, it can be particularized in instances providing pre-formatted designs structured according to a specific didactic method (such as Problem-Based Learning, PBL). A particularized LdShake instance has been used in the context of Human Biology studies where teams of teachers are required to work together in the design of PBL solutions. A controlled user study, that compares the use of a generic LdShake and a Moodie system, configured to enable the creation and sharing of designs, has been also carried out. The combined results of the real and controlled studies show that the social structure, and the commenting, co-edition and publishing features of LdShake provide a useful, effective and usable approach for facilitating teachers' teamwork. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000234704600008
Distance: 0.18462760746479034
Similarity: 0.8153723925352097
Title: Performance of new participants in virtual environments: The Nottingham tool for assessment of interaction in virtual environments (NAIVE)
Abstract: There is a need for an assessment tool which reliably distinguishes levels of participant performance in virtual environments (VEs) built within virtual reality (VR) systems. Such screening might be of potential users amongst a company's staff or might be carried out by human factors experimenters prior to the start of experiments in order to provide a base-line of participant competences. The Nottingham Tool for Assessment for Interaction in Virtual Environments (NAIVE) comprises a set of VE tasks and related tests, with appropriate performance criteria levels, covering the main aspects of navigation (viewpoint) control and object manipulation and operation. Trials with test participants enabled performance levels to be set to distinguish good, adequate and poor performers and tests to be distinguished according to whether performance in the general population is evenly spread or is skewed towards success or failure. (c) 2005 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000284437700008
Distance: 0.1852671056985855
Similarity: 0.8147328943014145
Title: Motor contagion in young children: Exploring social influences on perception-action coupling
Abstract: Human development occurs in a social environment in which learning is tightly coupled to the behavior of other supportive humans. One aspect of this coupling may occur through motor contagion, in which observing the actions of other people is associated with the activation of related motor representations. In order to explore the overlap between action observation and action execution in early childhood, a novel task was developed in which 4-year-old children were instructed to move a stylus on a graphics tablet in the presence of a background video which showed a model moving her arm in a direction that was either congruent or incongruent with the instructed axis of the child's stylus movements. The presence of incongruent background movements was associated with a significant interference effect on children's stylus movements. This interference effect was stronger when the background movements were performed by a same-age peer rather than by an adult. It is suggested that early childhood is a particularly interesting age period to study motor contagion, since the transition from infancy to childhood involves concurrent changes in cognitive control and in the ability to flexibly decouple perception and action. The examination of motor contagion provides an important consideration of social influences on cognitive control in early childhood - influences that have been somewhat neglected in the developmental literature on the related construct of executive functioning. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000327279900027
Distance: 0.18666264414787292
Similarity: 0.8133373558521271
Title: Applying a student modeling with non-monotonic diagnosis to Intelligent Virtual Environment for Training/Instruction
Abstract: We present a student modeling approach that has been designed to be part of an Intelligent Virtual Environment for Training and/or Instruction (IVET). In order to provide the proper tutoring to a student, an IVET needs to keep and update dynamically a student model taking into account the student's behaviour in the Virtual Environment. For that purpose, the proposed student model employs a student ontology, a pedagogic diagnosis module and a Conflict Solver module. The goal of the pedagogic diagnosis module is to infer which learning objectives have been acquired or not by the student. Nevertheless, the diagnosis process can be complicated by the fact that while learning the student will not only acquire new knowledge, but he/she may also forget some previously acquired knowledge, or he/she may have some oversights that could mislead the tutor about the true state of the student's knowledge. All of these situations will lead to contradictions in the student model that must be solved so that the diagnosis can continue. Thus, our approach consists in applying diagnosis rules until a contradiction arises. At that moment, a conflict solver module is responsible of classifying and solving the contradiction. Next, the student ontology is updated according to the resolution adopted by the Conflict Solver and the diagnosis can continue. This paper mainly focuses on the design of the proper mechanisms of the student model to deal with the non monotonic nature of the pedagogic diagnosis. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000341675100030
Distance: 0.18897123634815216
Similarity: 0.8110287636518478
Title: Touch Arithmetic: A process-based Computer-Aided Assessment approach for capture of problem solving steps in the context of elementary mathematics
Abstract: Technology today offers many new opportunities for innovation in educational assessment and feedback through rich assessment tasks, efficient scoring and reporting. However many Computer-Aided Assessment (CAA) environments focus on grading and providing feedback on the final product of assessment tasks rather than the process of problem solving. Focussing on steps and problem-solving processes can help teachers to diagnose strengths and weaknesses, discover strategies, and to provide appropriate feedback. This study explores a method that uses trace links on an interactive touch-based computing tool for the capture and analysis of solution steps in elementary mathematics. The tool was evaluated in an observational study among 8 and 9 year old primary school children (N = 39). The approach yielded similar performance scores as compared to paper-and-pencil tests while providing more explicit information on the problem-solving process. The output data was useful for scoring intermediate and final answers as well as feedback information on types and time efficiencies of strategies used. An implication of this study for teachers and researchers is that they can more accurately assess students' understanding of important concepts, and be in a better position to provide rich and detailed feedback while motivating students with interactive tasks. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000256391400012
Distance: 0.18916217982769012
Similarity: 0.8108378201723099
Title: A practitioner's guide to light weight software process assessment and improvement planning
Abstract: Software process improvement (SPI) is challenging, particularly for small and medium sized enterprises. Most existing SPI frameworks are either too expensive to deploy, or do not take an organizations' specific needs into consideration. There is a need for light weight SPI frameworks that enable practitioners to base improvement efforts on the issues that are the most critical for the specific organization. This paper presents a step-by-step guide to process assessment and improvement planning using improvement framework utilizing light weight assessment and improvement planning (iFLAP), aimed at practitioners undertaking SPI initiatives. In addition to the guide itself the industrial application of iFLAP is shown through two industrial cases. iFLAP is a packaged improvement framework, containing both assessment and improvement planning capabilities, explicitly developed to be light weight in nature. Assessment is performed by eliciting improvements issues based on the organization's experience and knowledge. The findings are validated through triangulation utilizing multiple data sources. iFLAP actively involves practitioners in prioritizing improvement issues and identifying dependencies between them in order to package improvements, and thus establish a, for the organization, realistic improvement plan. The two cases of iFLAP application in industry are presented together with lessons learned in order to exemplify actual use of the framework as well as challenges encountered. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000317369900033
Distance: 0.19016669690608978
Similarity: 0.8098333030939102
Title: Gamifying learning experiences: Practical implications and outcomes
Abstract: Gamification is the use of game design elements and game mechanics in non-game contexts. This idea has been used successfully in many web based businesses to increase user engagement. Some researchers suggest that it could also be used in web based education as a tool to increase student motivation and engagement. In an attempt to verify those theories, we have designed and built a gamification plugin for a well-known e-learning platform. We have made an experiment using this plugin in a university course, collecting quantitative and qualitative data in the process. Our findings suggest that some common beliefs about the benefits obtained when using games in education can be challenged. Students who completed the gamified experience got better scores in practical assignments and in overall score, but our findings also suggest that these students performed poorly on written assignments and participated less on class activities, although their initial motivation was higher. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000331682100020
Distance: 0.19114528596401215
Similarity: 0.8088547140359879
Title: Automated instructional design for CSCL: A hierarchical task network planning approach
Abstract: In Computer Supported Collaborative Learning (CSCL), one of the most important tasks for instructional designers is to define scenarios that foster group learning. Such scenarios, defined as Units of Learning (UoLs), comprise different components and are organized according to pedagogical approaches to orchestrate group learning processes. Examples of UoL components are learning objects, student roles, student characteristics (e.g., background, preferences, learning styles, etc.), instructional/learning goals, and activities, among others. Thus, the instructional design (ID) of a proper UoL for CSCL is a complex task that requires practice and experience. This is particularly true when designing, developing, adapting, and customizing UoLs, taking into consideration different instructional/learning goals and individual preferences of students. This paper therefore proposes using a Hierarchical Task Network (HTN) planning approach to automate and optimize the tasks of designers. To accomplish that, we define an initial CSCL scenario as "an ID task" and "a set of information related to students and the domain to be taught." Then we propose a model that formally describes ID for CSCL as HTN planning, where the initial CSCL scenario is adapted and refined according to student needs. In this model, the ID strategies are defined as hierarchical tasks and methods into a planning domain definition, and the initial CSCL scenario is defined as a planning problem definition. To validate our approach, we develop a CSCL courseware generator that (i) helps designers to set up an initial CSCL scenario; (ii) automatically generates a personalized UoL based on a given initial scenario; and (iii) supports the adaptation of UoLs. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000317027500010
Distance: 0.19198936223983765
Similarity: 0.8080106377601624
Title: A blended learning lecture delivery model for large and diverse undergraduate cohorts
Abstract: A blended learning model was developed to enhance lecture delivery in a large, diverse introductory psychology unit, introducing the use of an online, personalized learning system for lecture preparation and using lecture time to extend students' understanding. Changes to the assessment included diagnostic, formative and summative online quizzes. Using hierarchical multiple regression to account for the variance associated with prior achievement and background knowledge, the results show that students who completed the online formative assessments had significantly higher scores on summative assessment tasks, and that scores were even higher for students who used these resources repeatedly. Changes to future implementations of the model are suggested to improve student engagement in formative assessment, and to facilitate lecturer's use of reports on student progress to focus and improve the quality of discussion in the face-to-face lectures. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000240850400003
Distance: 0.19324766099452972
Similarity: 0.8067523390054703
Title: An intelligent tutoring system that generates a natural language dialogue using dynamic multi-level planning
Abstract: Objective: The objective of this research was to build an intelligent tutoring system capable of carrying on a natural language dialogue with a student who is solving a problem in physiology. Previous experiments have shown that students need practice in qualitative causal reasoning to internalize new knowledge and to apply it effectively and that they learn by putting their ideas into words. Methods: Analysis of a corpus of 75 hour-long tutoring sessions carried on in keyboard-to-keyboard style by two professors of physiology at Rush Medical College tutoring first-year medical students provided the rules used in tutoring strategies and tactics, parsing, and text generation. The system presents the student with a perturbation to the blood pressure, asks for qualitative predictions of the changes produced in seven important cardiovascular variables, and then Launches a dialogue to correct any errors and to probe for possible misconceptions. The natural language understanding component uses a cascade of finite-state machines. The generation is based on lexical functional grammar. Results: Results of experiments with pretests and posttests have shown that using the system for an hour produces significant learning gains and also that even this brief use improves the student's ability to solve problems more then reading textual material on the topic. Student surveys tell us that students like the system and feet that they learn from it. The system is now in regular use in the first-year physiology course at Rush Medical College. Conclusion: We conclude that the CIRCSIM-Tutor system demonstrates that intelligent tutoring systems can implement effective natural language dialogue with current language technology. (C) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000362046700010
Distance: 0.193898543715477
Similarity: 0.806101456284523
Title: Mining citizen emotions to estimate the urgency of urban issues
Abstract: Crowdsourcing technology offers exciting possibilities for local governments. Specifically, citizens are increasingly taking part in reporting and discussing issues related to their neighborhood and problems they encounter on a daily basis, such as overflowing trashbins, broken footpaths and lifts, illegal graffiti, and potholes. Pervasive citizen participation enables local governments to respond more efficiently to these urban issues. This interaction between citizens and municipalities is largely promoted by civic engagement platforms, such as See-Click-Fix, FixMyStreet, CitySourced, and OpenIDEO, which allow citizens to report urban issues by entering free text describing what needs to be done, fixed or changed. In order to develop appropriate action plans and priorities, government officials need to figure out how urgent are the reported issues. In this paper we propose to estimate the urgency of urban issues by mining different emotions that are implicit in the text describing the issue. More specifically, a reported issue is first categorized according to the emotions expressed in it, and then the corresponding emotion scores are combined in order to produce a final urgency level for the reported issue. Our experiments use the SeeClickFix hackathon data and diverse emotion classification algorithms. They indicate that (i) emotions can be categorized efficiently with supervised learning algorithms, and (ii) the use of citizen emotions leads to accurate urgency estimates. Further, using additional features such as the type of issue or its author leads to no further accuracy gains. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000292437400011
Distance: 0.19399720430374146
Similarity: 0.8060027956962585
Title: Conducting guided inquiry in science classes using authentic, archived, web-based data
Abstract: Students are often unable to collect the real-time data necessary for conducting inquiry in science classrooms. Web-based, real-time data could, therefore, offer a promising tool for conducting scientific inquiries within classroom environments. This study used a quasi-experimental research design to investigate the effects of inquiry-based instruction coupled with archived online data. Ninety-six preservice teachers in a four-year elementary science teacher-training program participated in this study. The students were enrolled in three sections of the methods course, and these existing groups were randomly assigned to the treatment groups: traditional instruction, traditional instruction supported with a simulation, and inquiry-based instruction with archived online data. Data were collected with structured interviews and analyzed with the constant comparative method and one-way ANOVA. Before the instructional interventions, none of the participants had a scientific understanding of tides, and 15% of the participants had no conceptual understanding of tides at all. After instruction, 72% of the participants who received inquiry-based instruction with archived online data were categorized as having scientific conceptual understandings; 46% of participants who received traditional instruction supported with a simulation were categorized as having scientific conceptual understandings; and 43% of participants who received traditional instruction were categorized as having scientific conceptual understandings. Statistical analyses showed that the group receiving inquiry-based instruction with archived online data performed significantly better than the other two instructional groups. Inquiry-based instruction with archived online data can be used to effectively perform inquiry activities within science classes; it might be used at different grade levels to teach a variety of scientific content. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000336820700002
Distance: 0.19442051649093628
Similarity: 0.8055794835090637
Title: Iterative augmentation of a medical training simulator: Effects of affective metacognitive scaffolding
Abstract: Experiential training simulators are gaining increasing popularity for job-related training due to their potential to engage and motivate adult learners. They are designed to provide learning experiences that are directly connected to users' work environments and support self-regulated learning. Nevertheless, learners often fail to transfer the knowledge gained in the simulated environment to real-world contexts. The EU-funded ImREAL project aimed to bridge that gap by developing a suite of intelligent services designed to enhance existing training simulators. This paper presents work that was a subset of this research project, reporting the iterative development and evaluation of a scaffolding service, which was integrated into a simulator for training medical students to perform diagnostic interviews. The study comprises three evaluation phases, comparing the pure simulator to a first version with metacognitive scaffolding and then to a final version with affective metacognitive scaffolding and enriched user modelling. The scaffolding service provides the learner with metacognitive prompts; affective elements are realized by an integrated affect reporting tool and affective prompts. Using a mixed-method approach by analysing questionnaires (N = 106) and log-data (N = 426), the effects of the services were investigated with respect to real-world relevance, self-regulated learning support, learning experience, and integration. Despite some limitations, the outcomes of this study demonstrate the usefulness of affective metacognitive scaffolding in the context of experiential training simulators; significant post-simulation increases in perceived relevance of the simulator, reflective note-taking, overall motivation, and feeling of success could be identified. Perceived usability and flow of the simulation increased, whereas overall workload and frustration decreased. However, low response rates to specific functions of the simulation point to a need to further investigate how to raise users' awareness and understanding of the provided tools, to encourage interaction with the services, and to better convey the benefits of using them. Thus, future challenges concern not so much technological developments for personalizing learning experiences, but rather new ways to change user attitudes towards an open approach to learning systems that enables them to benefit from all offered features. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000315799800002
Distance: 0.19444133341312408
Similarity: 0.8055586665868759
Title: Can technology change the work of nurses? Evaluation of a drug monitoring system for ambulatory chronic disease patients
Abstract: Objective: To evaluate the impact of an electronic drug monitoring system (eDMS) for ambulatory rheumatology patients on time nurses spent on, and the process of, drug monitoring. Methods: The study was conducted in the Rheumatology Department of a large metropolitan hospital. The eDMS, a module of the Hospital Clinical Information System (HCIS), was designed to allow electronic ordering and subsequent monitoring of ambulatory patients on long-term, immunosuppressive rheumatology medications. Quantitative measures collected before and after the intervention were: time spent on specific nursing activities; who nurses spent time with; format and location of documentation monitoring; and patient throughput. Qualitative data from interviews and observations were collected to ascertain the impact of the eDMS on nurses' monitoring activities. Results: Nurses spent significantly less time on medication monitoring tasks (33.1% versus 26.4%, P = 0.003) and significantly more time on patient care (6.5-18.1%, P < 0.0001) following implementation of the eDMS. Nurses also spent significantly more time with patients (7.7-19.8%, P < 0.0001) and relatives (0.4-3.7%, P = 0.01) after the system was implemented. The time saved on monitoring allowed the number of nurse directed clinics and patient throughput to increase following eDMS implementation. Qualitative data supported results from the timing study with nurses reporting that the monitoring process was more standardised, safer, took less time and simplified documentation. Conclusions: The eDMS was associated with a reduction in time spent on the complex task of medication monitoring allowing nurses to spend a greater proportion of their time on other patient care activities. Crown Copyright (C) 2012 Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000320687100007
Distance: 0.1958269327878952
Similarity: 0.8041730672121048
Title: A new methodology for measuring land fragmentation
Abstract: The presence of land fragmentation can indicate that an existing land tenure structure is problematic. It can be a major problem in many regions because it restricts rational agricultural development and reduces the opportunities for sustainable rural development although in some cases, it can prove beneficial and desirable for social and environmental reasons. Whilst policies to counter land fragmentation require reliable measurement of the situation, current fragmentation indices have significant weaknesses. In particular, they ignore critical spatial variables such as the shape of parcels as well as non-spatial variables such as ownership type and the existence or absence of road access for each land parcel. Furthermore, there is no flexibility for users to select the variables that they think appropriate for inclusion in the fragmentation index, and no variable weighting mechanism is available. The aim of this paper is to introduce a new 'global land fragmentation index' that combines a multi-attribute decision-making method with a geographic information system. When applied to a case study area in Cyprus, the new index outperforms the existing indices in terms of reliability as it is comprehensive, flexible, problem specific and knowledge-based. The methodology can be easily applied to assess the quality of any existing system for which evaluation criteria can be defined with values ranging from the worst to best conditions. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000276532600011
Distance: 0.19605378806591034
Similarity: 0.8039462119340897
Title: Establishing ISO 10015 accreditation system performance model for domestic enterprises
Abstract: Under Challenge 2008: Major Plans for National Development and New 10 Major Construction Projects by Council of Economic Development and Planning, talent fostering and research development will be the main consideration in the four major investments. With artificial neural network classification technology, a best network structure that eliminates over- or under-evaluation of self-assessment and actual implementation by enterprises is simulated. The accuracy rate of the module is 100% and that of sample is 98.88%. This can measure actual input and manpower training performance level of enterprises. With cross performance matrix, the researcher explores input strategies of organizations on TTQS index perception importance, expert assessment actual implementation and organization self-assessment satisfaction to find the difference of organizations on TTQS index perception important tuned into actual execution. Key questions include learning results transfer working environment, connection of training planning and operation goal achievement and training quality management system and documentation manuals, etc. Values of aspects and indexes of enterprises assessed as Group A (benchmarking) and Group B (excellent) by experts in the database through AHP questionnaire. This will be reference for enterprises on input resource strategies in TTQS index. Beginning planning, design and execution will affect results and review. After sorting in fuzzy hierarchy analysis, the researcher has Enterprise Development Strategies or Strategy Map/Blueprint (Annual Business Development Plan), including development of human resources and training planning details, themes or directions and explanations to employees. With the evaluation model, it is hoped enterprises wishing to be engaged in humanity can have self-evaluation and improve overall human resources based on the solutions in this study. Domestic enterprises can also shorten the time of introducing ISO 10015, reduce cost and increase the success rate. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000338619800005
Distance: 0.19631505012512207
Similarity: 0.8036849498748779
Title: Developing a problem-solving learning system to assess the effects of different materials on learning performance and attitudes
Abstract: Cultivating problem-solving abilities has recently become a popular trend in learning systems. It is important to consider that instructional materials can be designed with various types of learning materials, and that the degree to which learning performance is enhanced depends on the type of learning materials provided to the learner. Therefore, this study develops a problem-solving learning system (PSLS) based on animated game-based materials and problem-solving theory; the-study also conducts an in-depth analysis of the relationship between learning materials and personal traits. PSLS consists of a series of solution-inferring tasks that can be utilized to train learners in problem solving. The participants in this study consisted of 134 university students who were asked to analyze the differences in learning performance and learners' self-perception of difficulty when using various learning materials. Moreover, eight teachers were included in this study in order to examine the effectiveness of PSLS. Results show that both gender and learning styles influence not only learning performance but also self-perception of difficulty levels with animated game-based materials in certain scenarios. In addition, the participants showed a 95% probability of obtaining above-average user satisfaction, which suggests that PSLS can be a good vehicle for providing problem-solving activities. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------


###################################

