Related papers

Paper Id: WOS:000276114300001
Distance: 0.44779089093208313
Similarity: 0.5522091090679169
Title: The foundations of a theory-aware authoring tool for CSCL design
Abstract: One of the most useful ways to enhance collaboration is to create scenarios where learners are able to interact more effectively. Nevertheless, the design of pedagogically sound and well-thought-out collaborative learning scenarios is a complex issue. This is due to the context of group learning where the synergy among learners' interactions affects learning processes and, hence, the learning outcome. Although many advances have been made to support the designing of collaborative learning scenarios through technology, a more systematic approach is lacking. With the limitations of the current designing methods and tools, it is difficult to develop intelligent authoring systems that can guide users in order to produce more effective collaboration. One of the main difficulties with creating a more consistent (computer-understandable) approach to designing collaboration is the necessity of proposing better ways to formalize the group learning processes. In this paper, we present an innovative approach that uses ontologies and concepts from learning theories to create a framework that represents collaborative learning and its processes. Ontologies provide the necessary formalization to represent collaboration, while learning theories provide the concepts to justify and support the development of effective learning scenarios. Such an approach contributes to establish the foundations for the development of the next generation of intelligent authoring systems referred to as theory-aware systems. To verify the viability and usefulness of our proposed ontological framework in the context of systematic design, the development and use of an intelligent authoring tool for CSCL design is presented. This system is able to reason on ontologies to give suggestions that help users to create theory-compliant collaborative learning scenarios. We carried out several experiments with teachers in a geometry drawing course and the results indicate that the system helps teachers to create and interchange their scenarios more easily and facilitates the selection of important pedagogical strategies that influence positively the designing and effectiveness of group activities. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000336820700002
Distance: 0.4595588445663452
Similarity: 0.5404411554336548
Title: Iterative augmentation of a medical training simulator: Effects of affective metacognitive scaffolding
Abstract: Experiential training simulators are gaining increasing popularity for job-related training due to their potential to engage and motivate adult learners. They are designed to provide learning experiences that are directly connected to users' work environments and support self-regulated learning. Nevertheless, learners often fail to transfer the knowledge gained in the simulated environment to real-world contexts. The EU-funded ImREAL project aimed to bridge that gap by developing a suite of intelligent services designed to enhance existing training simulators. This paper presents work that was a subset of this research project, reporting the iterative development and evaluation of a scaffolding service, which was integrated into a simulator for training medical students to perform diagnostic interviews. The study comprises three evaluation phases, comparing the pure simulator to a first version with metacognitive scaffolding and then to a final version with affective metacognitive scaffolding and enriched user modelling. The scaffolding service provides the learner with metacognitive prompts; affective elements are realized by an integrated affect reporting tool and affective prompts. Using a mixed-method approach by analysing questionnaires (N = 106) and log-data (N = 426), the effects of the services were investigated with respect to real-world relevance, self-regulated learning support, learning experience, and integration. Despite some limitations, the outcomes of this study demonstrate the usefulness of affective metacognitive scaffolding in the context of experiential training simulators; significant post-simulation increases in perceived relevance of the simulator, reflective note-taking, overall motivation, and feeling of success could be identified. Perceived usability and flow of the simulation increased, whereas overall workload and frustration decreased. However, low response rates to specific functions of the simulation point to a need to further investigate how to raise users' awareness and understanding of the provided tools, to encourage interaction with the services, and to better convey the benefits of using them. Thus, future challenges concern not so much technological developments for personalizing learning experiences, but rather new ways to change user attitudes towards an open approach to learning systems that enables them to benefit from all offered features. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000339130100005
Distance: 0.4606395661830902
Similarity: 0.5393604338169098
Title: Efficient crowdsourcing of unknown experts using bounded multi-armed bandits
Abstract: Increasingly, organisations flexibly outsource work on a temporary basis to a global audience of workers. This so-called crowdsourcing has been applied successfully to a range of tasks, from translating text and annotating images, to collecting information during crisis situations and hiring skilled workers to build complex software. While traditionally these tasks have been small and could be completed by non-professionals, organisations are now starting to crowdsource larger, more complex tasks to experts in their respective fields. These tasks include, for example, software development and testing, web design and product marketing. While this emerging expert crowdsourcing offers flexibility and potentially lower costs, it also raises new challenges, as workers can be highly heterogeneous, both in their costs and in the quality of the work they produce. Specifically, the utility of each outsourced task is uncertain and can vary significantly between distinct workers and even between subsequent tasks assigned to the same worker. Furthermore, in realistic settings, workers have limits on the amount of work they can perform and the employer will have a fixed budget for paying workers. Given this uncertainty and the relevant constraints, the objective of the employer is to assign tasks to workers in order to maximise the overall utility achieved. To formalise this expert crowdsourcing problem, we introduce a novel multi-armed bandit (MAB) model, the bounded MAB. Furthermore, we develop an algorithm to solve it efficiently, called bounded epsilon-first, which proceeds in two stages: exploration and exploitation. During exploration, it first uses epsilon B of its total budget B to learn estimates of the workers' quality characteristics. Then, during exploitation, it uses the remaining (1 - epsilon)B to maximise the total utility based on those estimates. Using this technique allows us to derive an O (B-2/3) upper bound on its performance regret (i.e., the expected difference in utility between our algorithm and the optimum), which means that as the budget B increases, the regret tends to 0. In addition to this theoretical advance, we apply our algorithm to real-world data from oDesk, a prominent expert crowdsourcing site. Using data from real projects, including historic project budgets, expert costs and quality ratings, we show that our algorithm outperforms existing crowdsourcing methods by up to 300%, while achieving up to 95% of a hypothetical optimum with full information. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000351736100010
Distance: 0.4648307263851166
Similarity: 0.5351692736148834
Title: Rethinking the Impact of Activity Design on a Mobile Learning Trail: The Missing Dimension of the Physical Affordances
Abstract: This paper investigates the relationship between activity design and discourse on a mobile learning trail, considering the physical affordances of the real world platform in designing contextual learning experiences. We adopted a context-oriented and process-oriented pedagogical approach in designing the mobile learning trail conducted at Singapore Sentosa Island. Activities were categorized into performative and knowledge-generative on a continuum from well-structured to ill-structured activities. To examine the impact of activity design on discourse types, all audio-recorded verbal data of the three groups of secondary students was analysed with respect to two key dimensions in the knowledge construction process, namely, the epistemic and the social. Analysis showed that activity types and physical affordances of the learning environment have a definitive bearing on group discursive moves. Importantly, the presence of a real world context could generate critical thinking and collaborative knowledge building even for mundane performative activities when they are embedded with unforeseen contextual variables. We argue that the design of activity and the degree of its structuredness, and the assumed desired learning outcomes, are very much subjected to the affordances of physical and social resources in the mobile learning environment-a missing dimension that could possibly be overlooked and understudied.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000284670200003
Distance: 0.4727405309677124
Similarity: 0.5272594690322876
Title: A prototype for a conversational companion for reminiscing about images
Abstract: This paper describes an initial prototype of the Companions project (www.companions-project.org): the Senior Companion (SC), designed to be a platform to display novel approaches to: (1) The use of Information Extraction (IE) techniques to extract the content of incoming dialogue utterances after an ASR phase. (2) The conversion of the input to RDF form to allow the generation of new facts from existing ones, under the control of a Dialogue Manager (DM), that also has access to stored knowledge and knowledge accessed in real time from the web, all in RDF form. (3) A DM expressed as a stack and network virtual machine that models mixed initiative in dialogue control. (4) A tuned dialogue act detector based on corpus evidence. The prototype platform was evaluated, and we describe this; it is also designed to support more extensive forms of emotion detection carried by both speech and lexical content, as well as extended forms of machine learning. We describe preliminary studies and results for these, in particular a novel approach to enabling reinforcement learning for open dialogue systems through the detection of emotion in the speech signal and its deployment as a form of a learned DM, at a higher level than the DM virtual machine and able to direct the SC's responses to a more emotionally appropriate part of its repertoire. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000322592200005
Distance: 0.4739292860031128
Similarity: 0.5260707139968872
Title: LeadFlow4LD: A Method for the Computational Representation of the Learning Flow and Data Flow in Collaborative Learning
Abstract: A computer representation of teaching-learning processes in collaborative learning settings consists of modelling not only the sequence of learning activities and educational resources as existing learning design languages propose, but also modelling both the sequence of invocations of tools needed to carry out the learning activities and the flow of data among those tools. Existing data flow approaches only model data with activities but not data with tools. In this paper, we present LeadFlow4LD, a learning design and workflow-based method to achieve such a computational representation of collaborative learning processes in an interoperable and standard way. The proposed method has been assessed through the specification and enactment of a variety of non-trivial collaborative learning situations. The experimental results indicate that the level of expressiveness of the proposal is adequate in order to represent the flow of tools invocations and data which was missing in other existing research approaches.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000304217500005
Distance: 0.4741698205471039
Similarity: 0.5258301794528961
Title: Assessing the likelihood of realizing idealized goals: The case of urban water strategies
Abstract: Urban water management can be challenging, but in Small Island Developing States it is particularly difficult due to resource constraints and isolation. This is the situation in the town of Tarawa in Kiribati, where attempts to improve water services have often not led to the desired outcomes. The reasons are varied, and include widely a lack of consideration of local circumstances, process requirements, and inadequate involvement of affected stakeholders, and inadequate cross-sectoral coordination. In light of the tendency in urban water planning to assume only the idealized performance of strategies, the authors argue that there is a need to also formally consider the likelihood of realizing this idealized performance. It is difficult to assess such likelihoods, other than via the use of judgments by expert and local stakeholders. Such judgments are typically qualitative and fairly abstract and often not directly concerning a particular strategy. The current paper provides a methodology to assess the likelihood of the idealized performance of strategies, based on Bayesian Networks (BNs) and Subjective Logic (SL) utilizing expert and local knowledge, creating a capacity to capture and apply previous experiences, and dispersed knowledge in decision making and planning. The methodology has been developed and tested on water management strategies in the town of Tarawa, Kiribati. As such, this paper provides a method for mapping the causal explanations for why developments do not achieve their set goals, and the approach may form the basis for assessments to be more widely applied when evaluating urban water strategies in similar contexts. In this paper, the approach has been applied by using existing data from interviews and literature to evaluate one strategy, reserve extensions and groundwater extraction. Other strategies, i.e. rainwater harvesting, desalination and have also been evaluated but have not been described in this paper because of limited space. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000282349200007
Distance: 0.47632095217704773
Similarity: 0.5236790478229523
Title: An automatic group composition system for composing collaborative learning groups using enhanced particle swarm optimization
Abstract: One goal of collaborative learning is to maximize the learning performance of all participating students. In order to achieve this aim, the first step is to consider how to assist instructors in forming well-structured collaborative learning groups with a good work atmosphere to promote successful outcomes for all members. Generally, understanding levels and interests of students are two grouping criteria that are usually considered by practicing instructors. Nevertheless, when the instructors face a large number of students, simultaneously considering the two grouping criteria to form the students in an appropriate collaborative learning context is almost impossible. To address this problem, this study formulates a group composition problem to model the formation of collaborative learning groups that satisfy the two grouping criteria. Moreover, this study is based on a novel approach called particle swarm optimization (PSO) to propose an enhanced PSO (EPSO) for composing well-structured collaborative learning groups. In addition, the experimental results have demonstrated that the proposed approach is an applicable and robust method that can aid instructors in planning different kinds of collaborative learning processes. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000278227500003
Distance: 0.4765518307685852
Similarity: 0.5234481692314148
Title: Analyzing Team Decision-Making in Tactical Scenarios
Abstract: Team decision-making is a bundle of interdependent activities that involve gathering, interpreting and exchanging information; creating and identifying alternative courses of action; choosing among alternatives by integrating the often different perspectives of team members and implementing a choice and monitoring its consequences. To accomplish joint tasks, human team members often assume distinctive roles in task completion. We believe that to design and build software agents that can assist human teams, we need develop automated techniques to identify the roles of the human decision-makers. If the supporting agents are insensitive to shifts in the team's roles, they cannot effectively monitor the team's activities. This article addresses the problem of doing offline role analysis of battle scenarios from multi-player team games. The ability to identify team roles from observations is important for a wide range of applications including automated commentary generation, game coaching and opponent modeling. We define a role as a preference model over possible actions based on the game state. This article explores two promising approaches for automated role analysis: (1) a model-based system for combining evidence from observed events using the Dempster-Shafer theory and (2) a data-driven discriminative classifier using support vector machines.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000245477700004
Distance: 0.48054173588752747
Similarity: 0.5194582641124725
Title: A user-independent real-time emotion recognition system for software agents in domestic environments
Abstract: The mystery surrounding emotions, how they work and how they affect our lives has not yet been unravelled. Scientists still debate the real nature of emotions, whether they are evolutionary, physiological or cognitive are just a few of the different approaches used to explain affective states. Regardless of the various emotional paradigms, neurologists have made progress in demonstrating that emotion is as, or more, important than reason in the process of making decisions and deciding actions. The significance of these findings should not be overlooked in a world that is increasingly reliant on computers to accommodate to user needs. In this paper, a novel approach for recognizing and classifying positive and negative emotional changes in real time using physiological signals is presented. Based on sequential analysis and autoassociative networks, the emotion detection system outlined here is potentially capable of operating on any individual regardless of their physical state and emotional intensity without requiring an arduous adaptation or pre-analysis phase. Results from applying this methodology on real-time data collected from a single Subject demonstrated a recognition level of 71.4% which is comparable to the best results achieved by others through off-line analysis. It is suggested that the detection mechanism outlined in this paper has all the characteristics needed to perform emotion recognition in pervasive computing. (C) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000303599700003
Distance: 0.48158061504364014
Similarity: 0.5184193849563599
Title: Co-Designing Collaborative Smart Classroom Curriculum for Secondary School Science
Abstract: This paper introduces a series of iterative designs that investigate how the aggregation and visualization of student-contributed work can support collaborative problem solving in the domain of physics. We investigate how new technologies can enable students to contribute to a shared knowledge base, working across contexts: in class, at home, and in a specialized "smart classroom" environment. We explore how student data can be provided to the teacher before class, in support of planning the next day's lesson, and during class, to help the teacher orchestrate class activities and respond to student needs. Our work builds upon the research tradition of knowledge communities and inquiry learning to inform its design of materials and activities that support productive collaborative interactions for learners. We are also guided by the recent literature on scripting and orchestration to define curricular activities that bridge home and school environments, leveraging a digital platform that includes Web 2.0 features to guide structured collaborations. This paper reports on a design-based research program in which the development of the curriculum and technology platform is informed by successive cycles of design, enactment, analysis, and re-design. The paper will review our efforts through three successive design cycles, exploring the evolution of our own "smart classroom curriculum" for high school physics. For each iteration, we present our design goals, the resulting curriculum and technology, the student learning outcomes, and our evaluation that informs the next iteration. We end with a description of our current design, and discuss the goals and directions of our future efforts.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000366196300040
Distance: 0.48257821798324585
Similarity: 0.5174217820167542
Title: Analysis of collaborative learning in social network sites used in education
Abstract: Over the past years, the Internet witnessed the widespread use of social network sites (SNSs) that saw their number of subscribers soar to unprecedented levels. Yet, until recently, such sites remained primarily focused on maintaining social relations. As such sites became more mainstream, new uses transpired. In education, SNSs are seen as a new medium for helping students collaborate. They are regarded as new instruments that should play a fundamental role in fostering learning. Lately, many SNSs claim that they support collaborative learning, and they varied from document sharing systems to classical SNSs such as Facebook. These systems are pioneering the evolution towards educational SNSs (ESNSs). This paper presents a comparative study between different SNSs and ESNSs that support learning. We identify the criteria that an E/SNS must implement to positively contribute to the learning experience of students and outline the important features that should be considered when designing such systems to promote collaboration. We also present ELSE, our developed educational SNS designed based on the findings of the comparative study, as well as the result of our field study that was conducted to show the impact of implementing such features in social sites for collaborative learning.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000262178000094
Distance: 0.4832133650779724
Similarity: 0.5167866349220276
Title: An application of intelligent techniques and semantic web technologies in e-learning environments
Abstract: The essential elements of effective learning are control of students skills and feedback between Students and their tutor. The main idea behind the approach presented here is that a domain ontology is not only useful as a learning instrument but it can also be employed to assess Students' skills. For it, each student is prompted to express his/her beliefs by building her/his own discipline-related ontology and then it is compared to a reference one. The analysis of students' mistakes allows to propose them personalized recommendations and to improve the course materials in general. In this work, we present a Semantic Web technologies-based multi-agent system that allows to automatically control students' acquired knowledge in e-learning frameworks. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000328542200007
Distance: 0.4838871955871582
Similarity: 0.5161128044128418
Title: Ensemble - an E-Learning Framework
Abstract: E-Learning frameworks are conceptual tools to organize networks of e-learning services. Most frameworks cover areas that go beyond the scope of e-learning, from course to financial management, and neglects the typical activities in everyday life of teachers and students at schools such as the creation, delivery, resolution and evaluation of assignments. This paper presents the Ensemble framework - an e-learning framework exclusively focused on the teaching-learning process through the coordination of pedagogical services. The framework presents an abstract data, integration and evaluation model based on content and communications specifications. These specifications must base the implementation of networks in specialized domains with complex evaluations. In this paper we specialize the framework for two domains with complex evaluation: computer programming and computer-aided design (CAD). For each domain we highlight two Ensemble hotspots: data and evaluations procedures. In the former we formally describe the exercise and present possible extensions. In the latter, we describe the automatic evaluation procedures.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000289722100006
Distance: 0.4852921962738037
Similarity: 0.5147078037261963
Title: Early Experiences with Responsive Open Learning Environments
Abstract: Responsive open learning environments (ROLEs) are the next generation of personal learning environments (PLEs). While PLEs rely on the simple aggregation of existing content and services mainly using Web 2.0 technologies, ROLEs are transforming lifelong learning by introducing a new infrastructure on a global scale while dealing with existing learning management systems, institutions, and technologies. The requirements engineering process in highly populated test-beds is as important as the technology development. In this paper, we will describe first experiences deploying ROLEs at two higher learning institutions in very different cultural settings. The Shanghai Jiao Tong University in China and at the "Center for Learning and Knowledge Management and Department of Information Management in Mechanical Engineering" (ZLW/IMA) at RWTH Aachen University have exposed ROLEs to theirs students in already established courses. The results demonstrated to readiness of the technology for large-scale trials and the benefits for the students leading to new insights in the design of ROLEs also for more informal learning situations.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000329683200019
Distance: 0.48902514576911926
Similarity: 0.5109748542308807
Title: Technological support for the enactment of collaborative scripted learning activities across multiple spatial locations
Abstract: Computer Supported Collaborative Blended Learning (CSCBL) scripts are innovative practices that benefit from interactive devices to combine and coordinate activities occurring in different spatial locations. However, the adoption of CSCBL scripts is hindered by the difficulties in orchestration that they entail for practitioners. As observed in a concrete experiment, these orchestration problems include: adapting group formation according to students' actions in previous activities, supporting transitions between activities and artifacts across locations using diverse technologies, or displaying the appropriate tools to students depending on their group and assigned task. This paper describes the technological support designed to alleviate this complexity. The result is a Computer Supported Collaborative Blended Learning (CSCBL) script and its associated orchestration system that allows the replication of these practices at a minimum cost. The CSCBL script has been evaluated in a case study with 35 students and 5 teachers. Based on this orchestration system and the Findings of the experiment, we also propose an architecture based on IMS Learning Design and Generic Service Integration in combination with other web based tools to support the enactment of other similar CSCBL scripts. The findings of this experiment offer interesting insights into the extend to which different technologies and multiple spaces can be combined for orchestrating integrated complex collaborative practices. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000367334900003
Distance: 0.4894045293331146
Similarity: 0.5105954706668854
Title: A Hybrid Trust-Based Recommender System for Online Communities of Practice
Abstract: The needs for life-long learning and the rapid development of information technologies promote the development of various types of online Community of Practices (CoPs). In online CoPs, bounded rationality and metacognition are two major issues, especially when learners face information overload and there is no knowledge authority within the learning environment. This study proposes a hybrid, trust-based recommender system to mitigate above learning issues in online CoPs. A case study was conducted using Stack Overflow data to test the recommender system. Important findings include: (1) comparing with other social community platforms, learners in online CoPs have stronger social relations and tend to interact with a smaller group of people only; (2) the hybrid algorithm can provide more accurate recommendations than celebrity-based and content-based algorithm and; (3) the proposed recommender system can facilitate the formation of personalized learning communities.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000240850400003
Distance: 0.4894798994064331
Similarity: 0.5105201005935669
Title: An intelligent tutoring system that generates a natural language dialogue using dynamic multi-level planning
Abstract: Objective: The objective of this research was to build an intelligent tutoring system capable of carrying on a natural language dialogue with a student who is solving a problem in physiology. Previous experiments have shown that students need practice in qualitative causal reasoning to internalize new knowledge and to apply it effectively and that they learn by putting their ideas into words. Methods: Analysis of a corpus of 75 hour-long tutoring sessions carried on in keyboard-to-keyboard style by two professors of physiology at Rush Medical College tutoring first-year medical students provided the rules used in tutoring strategies and tactics, parsing, and text generation. The system presents the student with a perturbation to the blood pressure, asks for qualitative predictions of the changes produced in seven important cardiovascular variables, and then Launches a dialogue to correct any errors and to probe for possible misconceptions. The natural language understanding component uses a cascade of finite-state machines. The generation is based on lexical functional grammar. Results: Results of experiments with pretests and posttests have shown that using the system for an hour produces significant learning gains and also that even this brief use improves the student's ability to solve problems more then reading textual material on the topic. Student surveys tell us that students like the system and feet that they learn from it. The system is now in regular use in the first-year physiology course at Rush Medical College. Conclusion: We conclude that the CIRCSIM-Tutor system demonstrates that intelligent tutoring systems can implement effective natural language dialogue with current language technology. (C) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000330928800022
Distance: 0.4894809126853943
Similarity: 0.5105190873146057
Title: Representation sequencing in computer-based engineering education
Abstract: Multimedia engineering instruction typically includes verbal descriptions and diagrams, which can be presented in a contextualized format, using descriptions and illustrations of real-life elements (e.g., light bulb and battery), or in an abstract format, using conventional electrical engineering symbols. How the sequencing of these representation formats influences learning of conceptual knowledge has been examined in prior research. The present study examines how the representation sequencing impacts procedural learning of engineering problem solving. The study compared four sequences of representation (abstract -> abstract, contextualized -> contextualized, contextualized -> abstract, or abstract -> contextualized) during computer-based learning to determine which of the four sequences best promotes student learning. Learning outcomes were measured with a problem-solving posttest and learner perceptions were assessed using a learner questionnaire. The study results indicated that the abstract -> contextualized condition resulted in significantly higher near- and far-transfer posttest scores than the contextualized -> contextualized condition and in significantly higher near-transfer posttest scores than the contextualized -> abstract condition. Computer-based instruction in engineering problem solving for novice learners should initially employ abstract representations that convey the conceptually-relevant solution procedures shared across similar problems. Providing a variety of problem contexts in later stages of learning can assist learners in transfer of key procedural problem solving principles to novel problem settings with different superficial features. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000264754400006
Distance: 0.48998892307281494
Similarity: 0.5100110769271851
Title: Authoring Social-aware Tasks on Active Spaces
Abstract: Social-aware computing is an emerging trend based on ubiquitous computing technologies and collaborative work. A successful design demands a better understanding of group tasks, adaptation mechanisms and support for dynamic changes in a nomadic computing paradigm. This paper proposes the use of a hypermedia model to describe and support group activities in intelligent environments. The resulting system integrates adaptive context-aware information on the basis of user/group models in order to provide a structured access to dynamic task scheduling. In particular, we propose the use of the calendar metaphor as an ongoing connection between active spaces and collaborative tasks. This proposal provides the appropriate support for an easier human coordination to achieve common objectives in blended learning scenarios, and thus, extending authoring social tasks to physical spaces.

------------


###################################

