Related papers

Paper Id: WOS:000240850400003
Distance: 0.18542726337909698
Similarity: 0.814572736620903
Title: An intelligent tutoring system that generates a natural language dialogue using dynamic multi-level planning
Abstract: Objective: The objective of this research was to build an intelligent tutoring system capable of carrying on a natural language dialogue with a student who is solving a problem in physiology. Previous experiments have shown that students need practice in qualitative causal reasoning to internalize new knowledge and to apply it effectively and that they learn by putting their ideas into words. Methods: Analysis of a corpus of 75 hour-long tutoring sessions carried on in keyboard-to-keyboard style by two professors of physiology at Rush Medical College tutoring first-year medical students provided the rules used in tutoring strategies and tactics, parsing, and text generation. The system presents the student with a perturbation to the blood pressure, asks for qualitative predictions of the changes produced in seven important cardiovascular variables, and then Launches a dialogue to correct any errors and to probe for possible misconceptions. The natural language understanding component uses a cascade of finite-state machines. The generation is based on lexical functional grammar. Results: Results of experiments with pretests and posttests have shown that using the system for an hour produces significant learning gains and also that even this brief use improves the student's ability to solve problems more then reading textual material on the topic. Student surveys tell us that students like the system and feet that they learn from it. The system is now in regular use in the first-year physiology course at Rush Medical College. Conclusion: We conclude that the CIRCSIM-Tutor system demonstrates that intelligent tutoring systems can implement effective natural language dialogue with current language technology. (C) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000279137800024
Distance: 0.18568634986877441
Similarity: 0.8143136501312256
Title: A web-based learning tool improves student performance in statistics: A randomized masked trial
Abstract: Background: e-status is a web-based tool able to generate different statistical exercises and to provide immediate feedback to students' answers. Although the use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) is becoming widespread in undergraduate education, there are few experimental studies evaluating its effects on learning. Method: All of the students (121) from an introductory course for statistics in dentistry were randomly assigned to use the tool with one of two 6-problem sets, known as types A and B. The primary endpoint was the grade difference obtained in the final exam, composed of two blocks of questions related to types A and B. The exam evaluator was masked to the intervention group. Results: We found that the effect of e-status on the student grade was an improvement of 0.48 points (95% Cl: 0.10-0.86) on a ten-point scale. Among the 94 students who actually employed e-status, the effect size was 0.63 (95% Cl: 0.17-1.10). Conclusions: It is feasible to formally assess the learning effect of an innovative tool. Providing e-status exercises to students has a direct effect on learning numerical operations related to statistics. Further effects on higher cognitive levels still have to be explored. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000317369900033
Distance: 0.19687257707118988
Similarity: 0.8031274229288101
Title: Gamifying learning experiences: Practical implications and outcomes
Abstract: Gamification is the use of game design elements and game mechanics in non-game contexts. This idea has been used successfully in many web based businesses to increase user engagement. Some researchers suggest that it could also be used in web based education as a tool to increase student motivation and engagement. In an attempt to verify those theories, we have designed and built a gamification plugin for a well-known e-learning platform. We have made an experiment using this plugin in a university course, collecting quantitative and qualitative data in the process. Our findings suggest that some common beliefs about the benefits obtained when using games in education can be challenged. Students who completed the gamified experience got better scores in practical assignments and in overall score, but our findings also suggest that these students performed poorly on written assignments and participated less on class activities, although their initial motivation was higher. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000256391400012
Distance: 0.19767415523529053
Similarity: 0.8023258447647095
Title: A practitioner's guide to light weight software process assessment and improvement planning
Abstract: Software process improvement (SPI) is challenging, particularly for small and medium sized enterprises. Most existing SPI frameworks are either too expensive to deploy, or do not take an organizations' specific needs into consideration. There is a need for light weight SPI frameworks that enable practitioners to base improvement efforts on the issues that are the most critical for the specific organization. This paper presents a step-by-step guide to process assessment and improvement planning using improvement framework utilizing light weight assessment and improvement planning (iFLAP), aimed at practitioners undertaking SPI initiatives. In addition to the guide itself the industrial application of iFLAP is shown through two industrial cases. iFLAP is a packaged improvement framework, containing both assessment and improvement planning capabilities, explicitly developed to be light weight in nature. Assessment is performed by eliciting improvements issues based on the organization's experience and knowledge. The findings are validated through triangulation utilizing multiple data sources. iFLAP actively involves practitioners in prioritizing improvement issues and identifying dependencies between them in order to package improvements, and thus establish a, for the organization, realistic improvement plan. The two cases of iFLAP application in industry are presented together with lessons learned in order to exemplify actual use of the framework as well as challenges encountered. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000308122400017
Distance: 0.20124728977680206
Similarity: 0.7987527102231979
Title: Comparing the effectiveness of face to face and computer mediated collaboration
Abstract: In the construction industry, the need for collaboration between people who are geographically remote is a reoccurring feature. The traditional way of handing this is collocation but this is expensive and disruptive and so increasingly, use has been made of remote collaboration using computational technology over networks. This raises a concern that such a form of working may lose some of the natural richness of human communication which, in turn, will impair the ability of the participants to effectively undertake tasks of a technical nature. To assess whether or not this is so, a carefully controlled set of experiments has been undertaken using twenty pairs of people who are required to work on a partially developed simple design task. The work is undertaken using computer mediated communication supported by a 3D CAD package. As a control, the same pairs have also undertaken a similar design task working face to face. The principal objective is not to simulate a real construction project with all its complexities, but to evaluate collaboration using tasks of a construction design nature. The results show that, for the type of task used (which, by real life construction design standard, are rather simplistic in nature), people collaborating using computer mediated communication, at worst are as effective as people working face to face and are probably actually slightly more effective. This is a surprising result since computer mediated communication lack rich and valuable non-verbal aspects of communication. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000336820700002
Distance: 0.20299600064754486
Similarity: 0.7970039993524551
Title: Iterative augmentation of a medical training simulator: Effects of affective metacognitive scaffolding
Abstract: Experiential training simulators are gaining increasing popularity for job-related training due to their potential to engage and motivate adult learners. They are designed to provide learning experiences that are directly connected to users' work environments and support self-regulated learning. Nevertheless, learners often fail to transfer the knowledge gained in the simulated environment to real-world contexts. The EU-funded ImREAL project aimed to bridge that gap by developing a suite of intelligent services designed to enhance existing training simulators. This paper presents work that was a subset of this research project, reporting the iterative development and evaluation of a scaffolding service, which was integrated into a simulator for training medical students to perform diagnostic interviews. The study comprises three evaluation phases, comparing the pure simulator to a first version with metacognitive scaffolding and then to a final version with affective metacognitive scaffolding and enriched user modelling. The scaffolding service provides the learner with metacognitive prompts; affective elements are realized by an integrated affect reporting tool and affective prompts. Using a mixed-method approach by analysing questionnaires (N = 106) and log-data (N = 426), the effects of the services were investigated with respect to real-world relevance, self-regulated learning support, learning experience, and integration. Despite some limitations, the outcomes of this study demonstrate the usefulness of affective metacognitive scaffolding in the context of experiential training simulators; significant post-simulation increases in perceived relevance of the simulator, reflective note-taking, overall motivation, and feeling of success could be identified. Perceived usability and flow of the simulation increased, whereas overall workload and frustration decreased. However, low response rates to specific functions of the simulation point to a need to further investigate how to raise users' awareness and understanding of the provided tools, to encourage interaction with the services, and to better convey the benefits of using them. Thus, future challenges concern not so much technological developments for personalizing learning experiences, but rather new ways to change user attitudes towards an open approach to learning systems that enables them to benefit from all offered features. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000266137600004
Distance: 0.20390574634075165
Similarity: 0.7960942536592484
Title: A case-based approach for coordinated action selection in robot soccer
Abstract: Designing coordinated robot behaviors in uncertain, dynamic, real-time, adversarial environments, such as in robot soccer, is very challenging. In this work we present a case-based reasoning approach for cooperative action selection, which relies on the storage, retrieval, and adaptation of example cases. We focus on cases of coordinated attacking passes between robots in the presence of the defending opponent robots. We present the case representation explicitly distinguishing between controllable and uncontrollable indexing features, corresponding to the positions of the team members and opponent robots, respectively. We use the symmetric properties of the domain to automatically augment the case library. We introduce a retrieval technique that weights the similarity of a situation in terms of the continuous ball positional features, the uncontrollable features, and the cost of moving the robots from the current situation to match the case controllable features. The case adaptation includes a best match between the positions of the robots in the past case and in the new situation. The robots are assigned an adapted position to which they move to maximize the match to the retrieved case. Case retrieval and reuse are achieved within the distributed team of robots through communication and sharing of own internal states and actions. We evaluate our approach, both in simulation and with real robots, in laboratory scenarios with two attacking robots versus two defending robots as well as versus a defender and a goalie. We show that we achieve the desired coordinated passing behavior, and also outperform a reactive action selection approach. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000270870500004
Distance: 0.20594941079616547
Similarity: 0.7940505892038345
Title: Tracking medical students' clinical experiences using natural language processing
Abstract: Graduate medical students must demonstrate competency in clinical skills. Current tracking methods rely either on manual efforts or on simple electronic entry to record clinical experience. We evaluated automated methods to locate 10 institution-defined core clinical problems from three medical students' clinical notes (n = 290). Each note was processed with section header identification algorithms and the KnowledgeMap concept identifier to locate Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) concepts. The best performing automated search strategies accurately classified documents containing primary discussions to the core clinical problems with area under receiver operator characteristic curve of 0.90-0.94. Recall and precision for UMLS concept identification was 0.91 and 0.92, respectively. Of the individual note section, concepts found within the chief complaint, history of present illness, and assessment and plan were the strongest predictors of relevance. This automated method of tracking can provide detailed, pertinent reports of clinical experience that does not require additional work from medical trainees. The coupling of section header identification and concept identification holds promise for other natural language processing tasks, such as clinical research or phenotype identification. (C) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000306114400005
Distance: 0.2066638171672821
Similarity: 0.7933361828327179
Title: Development of a prototype continuity of care record with context-specific links to meet the information needs of case managers for persons living with HIV
Abstract: Objectives: (1) To develop a prototype Continuity of Care Record (CCR) with context-specific links to electronic HIV information resources; and (2) to assess case managers' perceptions regarding the usability of the prototype. Methods: We integrated context-specific links to HIV case management information resources into a prototype CCR using the Infobutton Manager and Librarian Infobutton Tailoring Environment (LITE). Case managers (N = 9) completed a think-aloud protocol and the Computer System Usability Questionnaire (CSUQ) to evaluate the usability of the prototype. Verbalizations from the think-aloud protocol were summarized using thematic analysis. CSUQ data were analyzed with descriptive statistics. Results: Although participants expressed positive comments regarding the usability of the prototype, the think-aloud protocol also identified the need for improvement in resource labels and for additional resources. On a scale ranging from 1 (strongly agree) to 7 (strongly disagree), the average CSUQ overall satisfaction was 2.25 indicating that users (n = 9) were generally satisfied with the system. Mean CSUQ factor scores were: System Usefulness (M = 2.13), Information Quality (M = 2.46), and Interface Quality (M = 2.26). Conclusion: Our novel application of the Infobutton Manager and LITE in the context of case management for persons living with HIV in community-based settings resulted in a prototype CCR with infobuttons that met the majority of case managers' information needs and received relatively positive usability ratings. Findings from this study inform future integration of context-specific links into CCRs and electronic health records and support their use for meeting end-users information needs. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000264648600003
Distance: 0.2089761346578598
Similarity: 0.7910238653421402
Title: The effectiveness of synchronous computer-mediated communication for solving hidden-profile problems: Further empirical evidence
Abstract: We experimentally compared the effectiveness of face-to-face (FTF) and synchronous computer-mediated communication when using a chat tool in solving hidden-profile business problems. In such problems, information critical to its solution is dispersed among team members and they must share it to solve the problem. Unlike prior research using hidden-profile tasks, our study used a real-world business-oriented task, established real rather than ad hoc teams, and imposed a time constraint on them. Hypotheses derived from media richness theory were found to be supported, with the results revealing that computer-mediated teams using the chat tool were less successful in exchanging and processing information than FTF teams and were thus less Successful at solving the hidden-profile problem. The results also showed that, when operating under a time constraint, FTF was preferred over computer-mediated communication due to the relative immediacy of feedback and multiplicity of cues available in the FIT setting, as media richness theory predicted. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000338619800005
Distance: 0.20900648832321167
Similarity: 0.7909935116767883
Title: Developing a problem-solving learning system to assess the effects of different materials on learning performance and attitudes
Abstract: Cultivating problem-solving abilities has recently become a popular trend in learning systems. It is important to consider that instructional materials can be designed with various types of learning materials, and that the degree to which learning performance is enhanced depends on the type of learning materials provided to the learner. Therefore, this study develops a problem-solving learning system (PSLS) based on animated game-based materials and problem-solving theory; the-study also conducts an in-depth analysis of the relationship between learning materials and personal traits. PSLS consists of a series of solution-inferring tasks that can be utilized to train learners in problem solving. The participants in this study consisted of 134 university students who were asked to analyze the differences in learning performance and learners' self-perception of difficulty when using various learning materials. Moreover, eight teachers were included in this study in order to examine the effectiveness of PSLS. Results show that both gender and learning styles influence not only learning performance but also self-perception of difficulty levels with animated game-based materials in certain scenarios. In addition, the participants showed a 95% probability of obtaining above-average user satisfaction, which suggests that PSLS can be a good vehicle for providing problem-solving activities. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000282563500005
Distance: 0.21010813117027283
Similarity: 0.7898918688297272
Title: Fiction support for realistic portrayals of fear-type emotional manifestations
Abstract: The present paper aims at filling the lack that currently exists with respect to databases containing emotional manifestations. Emotions, such as strong emotions, are indeed difficult to collect in real-life. They occur during contexts, which are generally unpredictable, and some of them such as anger are less frequent in public life than in private. Even though such emotions are not so present in existing databases, the need for applications, which target them (crisis management, surveillance, strategic intelligence, etc.), and the need for emotional recordings is even more acute. We propose here to use fictional media to compensate for the difficulty of collecting strong emotions. Emotions in realistic fictions are portrayed by skilled actors in interpersonal interactions. The mise-en-scene of the actors tends to stir genuine emotions. In addition, fiction offers an overall view of emotional manifestations in various real-life contexts: face-to-face interactions, phone calls, interviews, emotional event reporting vs. in situ emotional manifestations. A fear-type emotion recognition system has been developed, that is based on acoustic models learnt from the fiction corpus. This paper aims at providing an in-depth analysis of the various factors that may influence the system behaviour: the annotation issue and the acoustic features behaviour. These two aspects emphasize the main feature of fiction: the variety of the emotional manifestations and of their context. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000362046700010
Distance: 0.2111579179763794
Similarity: 0.7888420820236206
Title: Mining citizen emotions to estimate the urgency of urban issues
Abstract: Crowdsourcing technology offers exciting possibilities for local governments. Specifically, citizens are increasingly taking part in reporting and discussing issues related to their neighborhood and problems they encounter on a daily basis, such as overflowing trashbins, broken footpaths and lifts, illegal graffiti, and potholes. Pervasive citizen participation enables local governments to respond more efficiently to these urban issues. This interaction between citizens and municipalities is largely promoted by civic engagement platforms, such as See-Click-Fix, FixMyStreet, CitySourced, and OpenIDEO, which allow citizens to report urban issues by entering free text describing what needs to be done, fixed or changed. In order to develop appropriate action plans and priorities, government officials need to figure out how urgent are the reported issues. In this paper we propose to estimate the urgency of urban issues by mining different emotions that are implicit in the text describing the issue. More specifically, a reported issue is first categorized according to the emotions expressed in it, and then the corresponding emotion scores are combined in order to produce a final urgency level for the reported issue. Our experiments use the SeeClickFix hackathon data and diverse emotion classification algorithms. They indicate that (i) emotions can be categorized efficiently with supervised learning algorithms, and (ii) the use of citizen emotions leads to accurate urgency estimates. Further, using additional features such as the type of issue or its author leads to no further accuracy gains. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000266086600037
Distance: 0.2113616019487381
Similarity: 0.7886383980512619
Title: Correct behavior identification system in a Tagged World
Abstract: This paper presents a system that is able to process the information provided by a Tagged World to identify user's behavior and to produce alarms in dangerous situations. The system inputs are signals from sensors, which are used to recognize correct behavior (action sequences) by Inductive Learning, using Data Mining techniques. The inference engine is a reasoning device that is implemented by means of Regular Grammars. It permits LIS to control user's behavior. As Output, the system produces and sends alarms when a user action sequence is wrong, indicating the erroneous actions, forgotten future, and so on. To test Our system, the Tagged World is supposed to be at a house, where we have used RFID technology to control the objects inside it. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000284863200166
Distance: 0.2116384655237198
Similarity: 0.7883615344762802
Title: Development of remote healthcare system for measuring and promoting healthy lifestyle
Abstract: To promote a healthy lifestyle, a web-based health self-checkup system was developed, by which users can monitor their healthy lifestyle through daily checkups and make changes based on the prescription provided. The system consists of five components: (a) daily checkup key physiological parameters related to the metabolic syndrome, such as body weight, body fat, blood pressure and blood glucose level, (b) lifestyle questionnaires, including smoking, drinking, sleeping, entertainment, exercise and eating, (c) data analysis and interpretation, (d) report and behavior modification prescription, and (e) web-based health diary and mentor service. The development and key elements of the system are described in detail. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000348186500006
Distance: 0.21167930960655212
Similarity: 0.7883206903934479
Title: The Development and Preliminary Effectiveness of a Nursing Case Management E-Learning Program
Abstract: The purpose of this article was to describe the development and preliminary effectiveness of a digital case management education program. The e-learning program was built through the collaboration of a nurse educator and an informatics professor. The program was then developed according to the following steps: (1) building a visual interface, (2) scripting each unit, (3) preparing the course material and assessment tests, (4) using teaching software to record audio and video courses, (5) editing the audio recordings, (6) using instructional media or hyperlinks to finalize the interactions, (7) creating the assessment and obtaining feedback, and (8) testing the overall operation. The digital program consisted of five learning modules, self-assessment questions, learning cases, sharing experiences, and learning resources. Forty nurses participated in this study and fully completed the questionnaires both before and after the program. The knowledge and confidence levels in the experimental group were significantly higher over time than those of the comparison group. The results supported the use of educational technology to provide a more flexible and effective presentation method for continuing education programs.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000292437400011
Distance: 0.21183553338050842
Similarity: 0.7881644666194916
Title: Conducting guided inquiry in science classes using authentic, archived, web-based data
Abstract: Students are often unable to collect the real-time data necessary for conducting inquiry in science classrooms. Web-based, real-time data could, therefore, offer a promising tool for conducting scientific inquiries within classroom environments. This study used a quasi-experimental research design to investigate the effects of inquiry-based instruction coupled with archived online data. Ninety-six preservice teachers in a four-year elementary science teacher-training program participated in this study. The students were enrolled in three sections of the methods course, and these existing groups were randomly assigned to the treatment groups: traditional instruction, traditional instruction supported with a simulation, and inquiry-based instruction with archived online data. Data were collected with structured interviews and analyzed with the constant comparative method and one-way ANOVA. Before the instructional interventions, none of the participants had a scientific understanding of tides, and 15% of the participants had no conceptual understanding of tides at all. After instruction, 72% of the participants who received inquiry-based instruction with archived online data were categorized as having scientific conceptual understandings; 46% of participants who received traditional instruction supported with a simulation were categorized as having scientific conceptual understandings; and 43% of participants who received traditional instruction were categorized as having scientific conceptual understandings. Statistical analyses showed that the group receiving inquiry-based instruction with archived online data performed significantly better than the other two instructional groups. Inquiry-based instruction with archived online data can be used to effectively perform inquiry activities within science classes; it might be used at different grade levels to teach a variety of scientific content. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000280985600026
Distance: 0.21214503049850464
Similarity: 0.7878549695014954
Title: Developing a reciprocal teaching/learning system for college remedial reading instruction
Abstract: In face-to-face instruction of Reciprocal Teaching (RT), students' reading processes and dialogues with their peers are hardly observed. As a result, the teacher has few clues to identify students' learning difficulties and provide further scaffoldings. To record students' reading processes and enhance their comprehension, this study reports on the design of an online reciprocal teaching and learning system to support teachers and students in college remedial reading instruction. A sample of 129 under-prepared college students voluntarily signed up to participate in a remedial reading program. They were encouraged to use multiple strategies such as predicting, clarifying, questioning, and summarizing, which were supported by the functionalities of dialogue box, chat room, discussion forum, and annotation tool in the system. In this study, it was observed that students employed the multiple strategies to enhance their reading comprehension, as revealed by the students' reading processes recorded in the system. When encountering difficulties in using these multiple strategies, students expressed that they observed and learned from the teacher's or their peers' externalization of strategy usage. Students' reading progress in the remedial instruction incorporating the RT system was also identified by the pre- and post-tests. This study suggests that there may be benefits for teachers in encouraging students to interact with others in order to clarify and discuss comprehension questions and constantly monitor and regulate their own reading. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------

Paper Id: WOS:000327279900027
Distance: 0.2122347503900528
Similarity: 0.7877652496099472
Title: Applying a student modeling with non-monotonic diagnosis to Intelligent Virtual Environment for Training/Instruction
Abstract: We present a student modeling approach that has been designed to be part of an Intelligent Virtual Environment for Training and/or Instruction (IVET). In order to provide the proper tutoring to a student, an IVET needs to keep and update dynamically a student model taking into account the student's behaviour in the Virtual Environment. For that purpose, the proposed student model employs a student ontology, a pedagogic diagnosis module and a Conflict Solver module. The goal of the pedagogic diagnosis module is to infer which learning objectives have been acquired or not by the student. Nevertheless, the diagnosis process can be complicated by the fact that while learning the student will not only acquire new knowledge, but he/she may also forget some previously acquired knowledge, or he/she may have some oversights that could mislead the tutor about the true state of the student's knowledge. All of these situations will lead to contradictions in the student model that must be solved so that the diagnosis can continue. Thus, our approach consists in applying diagnosis rules until a contradiction arises. At that moment, a conflict solver module is responsible of classifying and solving the contradiction. Next, the student ontology is updated according to the resolution adopted by the Conflict Solver and the diagnosis can continue. This paper mainly focuses on the design of the proper mechanisms of the student model to deal with the non monotonic nature of the pedagogic diagnosis. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

------------


###################################

